Boko Haram Militants Suspected in Attacks at Mosques in Nigeria

DAKAR, Senegal —  Gunmen thought to be members of the Islamist sect Boko Haram rounded up scores of men in mosques in northeast Nigeria on Wednesday evening and began shooting indiscriminately, witnesses said.
Up to 150 people were gunned down in three locations, according to witnesses, making the attacks, if confirmed as the work of Boko Haram, among the bloodiest orchestrated by the extremist group this year. The massacres took place as men were breaking the daily Ramadan fast at about 6:30 p.m., eating dates in small community mosques in the town of Kukawa in Borno State, the center of Boko Haram’s bloody campaign against the government.
Officials in Borno State suggested that the sect was responding to the belligerent tone of Nigeria’s new president, Muhammadu Buhari, who has vowed to wipe out Boko Haram. He has taken steps to augment the military forces confronting the group — in contrast to his predecessor, Goodluck Jonathan, who was accused of allowing the violent uprising to fester for years.
Indeed, this week, Mr. Buhari’s vice president, Yemi Osinbajo, was in Maiduguri, the capital of Borno State and a city that during the previous administration rarely, if ever, received visits from top federal officials. Additional troops were deployed in Maiduguri this week to confront the insurgents.
In the latest attacks, gunmen stormed four mosques in Kukawa, a town that was the capital of an ancient Islamic kingdom, killing some 97 people. The gunmen set fire to the mosques, along with dozens of houses in the old town.
In two other, separate attacks, gunmen massacred men in villages near the town of Monguno, the site of a large army barracks, going house to house to separate the men and shooting them, witnesses said. Nearly 50 people were killed in these attacks. Afterward, militants planted land mines around the villages, according to one official.
Usmanu Babaji said he saw two of his neighbors shot in a Kukawa mosque as the fast was being broken. Mr. Babaji, encountered at a refugee camp in Maiduguri, said he had been able to flee, walking through the brush all night before being picked up by a car that took him to the city.
Earlier military action against Boko Haram in its hide-outs in the vast, scrubby Sambisa Forest in southern Borno State may have displaced some of the most vicious members toward areas further north, like Kukawa, according to Borno State officials.
The Nigerian Army has claimed in recent months to have retaken most of the towns and villages held by Boko Haram over the last year. Yet the group continues to mount regular attacks on civilians, particularly suicide bombings. There were two such bombings outside Maiduguri as the vice president was visiting.
“Most of the boys who pulled out of Sambisa went to those areas,” said Hussaini Monguno, a security adviser to Borno State’s governor, referring to Kukawa. “It is quite worrisome.”
“They just want to register their presence,” Mr. Monguno said. “They want to show they are strong, and still stronger.”
