Abuses by Nigeria’s Military Found to Be Rampant in War Against Boko Haram

DAKAR, Senegal —  In the course of Nigeria’s war against the Boko Haram terrorist group, at least 7,000 people have died in government detention because of brutal conditions, an additional 1,200 have been “extrajudicially executed” by Nigerian security forces, and at least 20,000 have been “arbitrarily arrested” by the authorities, Amnesty International said in a report released Wednesday.
Torture, mass shootings, starvation, the use of deadly fumigation chemicals in overcrowded cells — all of these have been routinely employed by the Nigerian military to lethal effect, the rights group said in the report.
The abuses constitute war crimes and possible crimes against humanity, the group contended in its 133-page report. It names a number of senior officers as responsible, including the Nigerian chief of defense staff, Alex Badeh.
Documented reports of large-scale human rights abuses by the Nigerian military have shadowed the country for years, often straining relations with international partners, including the United States, in the fight against Boko Haram.
But the Amnesty International report puts a specific and substantial number to the abuses. Amnesty International’s numbers have sometimes been the subject of scrutiny and controversy, as with its initial reports of the death toll in a Boko Haram massacre in the town of Baga earlier this year. In this case, the organization said it spent several years researching its report and conducted “more than 412 interviews.”
Credible witness reports made during the period of the group’s research support its conclusions. More than two years ago, hospital officials in Maiduguri reported the daily dumping by the military of dozens of emaciated, abused corpses — young men rounded up in the course of security operations.
Several of the most brutal abuses noted in Amnesty International’s new report — the shooting of over 600 people at Maiduguri’s Giwa barracks on March 14, 2014, and the killing of hundreds a day through ill treatment at that same facility in the spring of 2013 — were well reported at the time.
“The vast majority of arrests carried out by the military appear to be entirely arbitrary, often based solely on the dubious word of an informant,” the Amnesty International report said.
In interviews, the Nigerian authorities have long defended the military’s conduct. In its report, Amnesty International also noted that Nigerian officials have consistently denied, played down or minimized the accusations of human rights abuses, including former President Goodluck Jonathan, who left office Friday and who said in October that such reports were “exaggerated.”
For several years, though, American officials have cited the abuse reports as a principal reason for curtailing cooperation with the Nigerian military.
Nigeria’s new president, Muhammadu Buhari, a former general who once ran the nation as a military ruler, suggested in his inauguration speech that, unlike Mr. Jonathan, he would not turn a blind eye to rights abuses by the military.
“We shall overhaul the rules of engagement to avoid human rights violations in operations,” Mr. Buhari said Friday in his speech. “We shall improve operational and legal mechanisms so that disciplinary steps are taken against proven human right violations by the armed forces.”
On Tuesday, Mr. Buhari met with several of the top-ranking officers named in the report, including Mr. Badeh.
The naming of individuals — nine of the country’s highest-ranking officers are cited in the Amnesty International report as worthy of investigation, five for the “war crimes of murder, enforced disappearance and torture” — appears to have stung.
On Wednesday afternoon, in a departure from its frequent silence in response to queries and reports, the Defense Ministry issued an angry news release with the heading, “Amnesty International report intended to blackmail the Nigerian military.”
