The enemy within Boko Haram’s reign of terror across Northern Nigeria, Part I
Reports that the Islamist militant organization Boko Haram had kidnapped nearly 200 girls from their homes in the rural village of Chibok, Nigeria drew worldwide attention last April. This month, reports emerged of a massacre in the towns of Baga and Doro Gowon, though the number of people killed is unconfirmed. But Boko Haram has operated in the region for years, and government forces have struggled to contain it. Christians have been targets of some of the organization’s persecution and bombings, but the majority of Boko Haram’s victims have been Muslims.
The outpouring of public anger in Nigeria has increased as the Feb. 14 elections in that country draw near. Millions of Nigerians have since been displaced  by the attacks. Many throughout the country have not yet been issued the biometric ID cards required to vote, according to the BBC.
Secretary of State John Kerry was scheduled to meet with Nigerian President Goodluck Jonathan on Sunday. Jonathan has faced criticism for a perceived lack of transparency and swift action against Boko Haram. The president waited over a week to publicly denounce the apparent Jan. 3 massacre on Baga. And his government and the military have also been accused of providing misleading information regarding the release of the over 200 girls kidnapped from Chibok.
German photojournalist Andy Spyra has spent over three years embedded in remote villages in northern Nigeria, documenting the attacks in the region, mostly in Sokoto, Jos, Mahalla and several villages south of Maiduguri. Each frame provides a rarely seen view of the devastating toll on the victims and their villages.
Few journalists have had such access to the region; his work even includes an unusual photograph of a suspected Boko Haram fighter. Spyra’s series focuses on two themes: Boko Haram’s desire to control the power structure in Nigeria, and the social and political deterioration throughout the country.
