A suicide bomber aligned with a Taliban splinter group targeted Christians celebrating their faith’s holiest day when he blew himself up in a busy park in Pakistan on Sunday, killing at least 69 people, many of them children.

Taliban offshoot Jamaat-ul-Ahrar claimed responsibility for the massacre, which unfolded at one of the biggest parks in the northeastern city of Lahore — a popular site for members of the area’s minority Christian community.

Hundreds of people were also injured.

“The target was Christians,” said a spokesman for the militant cell, Ehsanullah Ehsan. “We want to send this message to Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif that we have entered Lahore.

“He can do what he wants, but he won’t be able to stop us,” Ehsan added. “Our suicide bombers will continue these attacks.”

Modal Trigger
AP
The bombing occurred in the parking lot around 8 p.m. local time, not far from the children’s swings and slides. Eyewitnesses reported severed body parts strewn across the lot after the dust from the blast had settled. Neighbors also reported pieces of charred flesh stuck to the sides of their houses, and shattered windows.

Local law enforcement said the blast appeared to be a suicide bombing, and some officials have announced that the bomber’s vest was packed with ball bearings.

A devastated father whose wife and children were at the park during the explosion searched frantically for them as he told reporters he had warned them not to visit the park.

“It was overcrowded because of Easter. There were a lot of Christians there. It was so crowded, I told my family not to go,” said Yousaf Masih, shaking. “My kids came here [to the park]. I was at home — I saw the news on TV — but my wife and children were here.”

Hasan Imran, 30, a resident who had been headed to the park for a walk, described the terror.

“When the blast occurred, the flames were so high they reached above the trees and I saw bodies flying in the air,” Imran said.

Local footage of the aftermath shows dozens of women and children covered in debris and standing in puddles of blood, shrieking and sobbing as rescue workers attempt to load victims into ambulances, private cars and even rickshaws.

One witness, who identified himself only as Afzal, said he had transported 20 blood- and mud-soaked children to the hospital, as well as helped carry remains of three bodies to a police car.

Area hospitals were unprepared to handle the massive carnage, and doctors reported staff treating patients on the floors of the corridors, as officials tweeted out calls for blood donations.

Salman Rafique, a health adviser for the Punjab provincial government, said many of the wounded were undergoing emergency surgery in hospitals.
“We fear that the death toll may climb considerably,” he said.

The park was under security surveillance when the bombing occurred, according to a statement from police chief Haider Ashraf.

“We are in a warlike situation and there is always a general threat but no specific threat alert was received for this place,” he clarified.

Lahore is the capital of the province of Punjab, one of Pakistan’s wealthiest areas. Christians are a minority in the city of 8 million, making up about 1.6 percent of the population.

Pakistan has been plagued with Taliban insurgency for years, but Punjab is traditionally one of the more peaceful provinces.

The chief minister of Punjab, Shahbaz Sharif, immediately announced the closure of all parks and malls, and announced three days of mourning. Saharif also pledged to bring those behind the bloodbath to justice, convening an emergency meeting of officials.