Terrorists can strike any time, anywhere Self defense saves lives
Terrorists can strike anywhere and at any time, giving them a huge strategic advantage.Unfortunately, too many politicians around the world are refusing to admit this.
After the Charlie Hebdo massacre in Paris earlier this month, France placed  in front of Jewish sites across the country.  Unfortunately, this is unlikely to be very effective.
Israel learned this lesson the hard way. For several decades after its founding, Israel responded by putting more soldiers and armed police on the streets. Unfortunately, a mass killer can wait for officers to leave the scene or to kill the uniformed officers first. No matter how much money Israel spent, terrorists could wait patiently until they see an opening to attack.
Today, in Israel, over 12 percent of adult Jewish civilians are licensed to carry firearms.  This complicates things for terrorists, as they don’t know who might be able to stop them. 
Possibly this lesson is why this past week a leading European rabbi, Menachem Margolin,  for European Jews to be able to carry handguns.  Of course, in countries that won’t even let off-duty police carry guns, that isn’t going to happen.
Parisians, who were as close as a dozen yards away from the terrorists, took videos of the killers, but they were powerless to stop the attackers.
French gun laws only disarmed the law-abiding citizens.
The terrorists weren’t so concerned with the laws. The  with numerous semi-automatic handguns, automatic Kalashnikov rifles, a loaded M42 rocket launcher, 10 Molotov cocktails, 10 smoke grenades, a hand grenade, and 15 sticks of dynamite.  They also had body armor and sophisticated radio communications. Obviously, all this was illegal.
Last May, . Belgium’s equally strict gun laws didn’t prevent that terrorist with a violent criminal history from obtaining a machine gun.  And this past week two more terrorists in Belgium apparently got a hold of illegal machine guns.
In late 2013, Ron Noble, the Secretary General of Interpol, which is a world version of the FBI and headquartered in Lyon, France, noted two means of protecting people from mass shootings. “”
But he warned how incredibly difficult it is to completely secure areas and that “You can’t have armed police forces everywhere.”
Referring to a terrorist attack at a mall in Kenya, a place where guns were banned, Noble noted: “Ask yourself: . . . if that was Texas, would those guys have been able to spend hours, days, shooting people randomly?  What I'm saying is it makes police around the world question their views on gun control.”
The terrorists frequently openly talk about their desire to attack where guns are bans. Last June, Justin Bourque shot to death three people in Moncton, Canada.   made fun of gun bans, with pictures of defenseless victims explaining to killers that they weren’t allowed to have their guns
Elliot Rodger, who killed three people in Santa Barbara, California that same month, explained his own choice. In   Rodger turned down targets because he worried that someone with a gun would cut short his killing spree. 
Since at least 1950, every single mass public shooting  (and all but two of the ones ) has occurred in gun-free zones.
American police largely agree with Noble. When , the largest private organization of police officers in the US with over 450,000 officers asked its members: “What would help most in preventing large scale shootings in public?”  The most common answer was: “more permissive concealed carry policies for civilians.”
In the U.S., over 12 million American civilians are licensed to carry concealed handguns.  These Americans save lives. In the Oklahoma beheading case, permit holder  stepped in before a second victim could be beheaded.
On Friday, the head of the European police agency Europol, Rob Wainwright, warned that it is “”
But an effective back-up plan is needed.  We know that armed self-defense saves lives.


