French prime minister declares ‘war’ on radical Islam
France has declared war against Islamic terrorism and hate, Prime Minister Manuel Valls said Saturday in defiant speeches aimed at rallying his country in the aftermath of a three-day jihad spree that left 17 dead.
“We are at war — not a war against a religion, not a war against a civilization, but to defend our values, which are universal,” Valls said.
“It’s a war against terrorism and radical Islamism, against everything that would break our solidarity, our liberty, our fraternity.”
The French people need to stand up for freedom of speech and faith — which in France means keeping religion separate from government, Valls said.
“Everyone must take responsibility — politicians and citizens alike,” he added.
“We cannot let pass a single one of these messages, or a single one of these acts. Our indignation must be clear, total and last long­er than three days. It must be permanent.
“We need standards, values and authority. There must be a firm message about the values of the republic and secularism.
“Journalists were killed because they defended freedom. Policemen were killed because they were protecting you,” he said.
“Jews were killed because they were Jewish.”
In other developments:
World leaders expected to participate include Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, German Chancellor Angela Merkel, British Prime Minister David Cameron and Jordan’s King Abdullah II and Queen Rania. Also planning to attend are Palestinian Authority President Mahmoud Abbas, an Israeli newspaper reported.
Attorney General Eric Holder will represent the United States. Also expected are Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov, Turkish Prime Minister Ahmet Davutoglu and the prime ministers of Belgium, Denmark, Italy, Spain and The Netherlands.
France has been convulsed by the three-day terror spree, which began Wednesday with the deadly attack by al Qaeda-linked brothers Cherif and Said Kouachi at the office of satirical newspaper Charlie Hebdo. Twelve people were slain.
Besides the deaths of the four Jewish hostages at the supermarket Friday, Coulibaly is also believed responsible for the death of woman police officer shot dead in southern Paris.
An array of French politicians will attend Sunday’s rally, including former President Nicolas Sarkozy, who is mounting a political comeback and is likely to challenge President Francois Hollande in 2017.
A notable absence will be far-right leader Marine Le Pen, whose National Front party blames immigration from France’s former African colonies for its problems with Islamic radicalism.
Valls said: “This will be an extraordinary demonstration…which must show the power and the dignity of the French people, who are going to proclaim their love of freedom and tolerance.”
During two public appearances Saturday — in Évry, the Paris suburb that is his political base, and later in Paris’ Porte de Vincennes neighborhood where the Jewish supermarket is located — Valls discussed the French government’s anti-terror efforts.
“We have greatly modernized our intelligence service and our law-enforcement sources. That will continue,” he said. But terrorism is “a phenomenon of unprecedented magnitude,” he added, noting that “1,200 to 1,400” jihadists are believed to currently reside in France.
Parisians flocked to Porte de Vincennes to leave bouquets and messages of condolence at the supermarket. Some declared, in a mingling of French and English, “Je suis Juif-friendly” — “I am Jew-friendly.”
In the southern city of Toulouse, police said 80,000 people took part in a march, with the “enormous” procession stretching more than 1¹/₂ miles.
In the city of Pau, a further 30,000 to 40,000 people staged a silent march. Schoolchildren led the procession carrying a banner saying: “We are all Charlie.”
With Post Wire Services
