After the Terrorist Attack in Paris

To the Editor:
Re “Terrorists Strike Paris Newspaper, Leaving 12 Dead” (front page, Jan. 8): This Muslim unequivocally condemns the terror attack at the office of the satirical newspaper Charlie Hebdo in Paris, which killed 12 people, including the top editor, cartoonists and two police officers. The act is thought to have been carried out by Muslim extremists in response to the newspaper’s history of publishing caricatures that denigrate the Prophet Muhammad.
I reiterate what I wrote in a letter after a firebombing of Charlie Hebdo three years ago: I wish the perpetrators recognized that Muhammad responded to hate with love, and to insult with prayer, and he insisted that his followers show the same type of forbearance against abuse.
Following the example of the Prophet, rather than misguided clerics who are notorious for prodding such atrocities, my prayers go out to the victims and their families.
SOHAIL Z. HUSAIN
Pittsburgh, Jan. 8, 2015
To the Editor:
The day after 9/11, Jean-Marie Colombani wrote in an editorial in Le Monde: “In this tragic moment, when words seem so inadequate to express the shock people feel, the first thing that comes to mind is this: We are all Americans! We are all New Yorkers.”
And today we are all French; we are all Parisians. Je suis Charlie.
DAVE RILEY
Laguna Woods, Calif., Jan. 8, 2015
To the Editor:
As an American living in Paris since 2011, I live the horror and rage over the attack on Charlie Hebdo. But are we all French now? It does not look that way for Western Europe’s largest Muslim population, with more than six million calling France home, most of them citizens. (It seems that some Jews in France these days don’t feel much allegiance to traditions here or much hope for the future either, with a sharp increase in the number of those leaving the country, as you reported.)
Successive governments right and left have done little to make life better for French Muslims. There is always a lot of talk. But what of it? More jobs or educational opportunities? Lessons learned, French and Arab, from London’s 2005 bombings by British Muslims?
Are there American-style remedies like affirmative action to help bind loyalty and give immigrants more of a stake in life in France? Not much evidence of it.
Where and how to stop the cascading violence and rewrite a future where presidents, citizens and immigrants do more to make a shared national future? People here have lots to say about this being France but provide few pluralistic answers. Marine Le Pen and her far-right forces appear to like it that way.
ALAN HAMERMAN
Paris, Jan. 8, 2015
To the Editor:
Saying “the terrorists have assaulted our values” is too facile in cases like the Charlie Hebdo murders or the murder of the filmmaker Theo van Gogh in Amsterdam in 2004. The phrase casts the murderous criminals (which they certainly are) as irrational lunatics (which they might not be).
Worse, it eliminates the need to understand what is essentially political violence, a boiling over of emotion. This leads to further violence, unfairness and racist politics.
Would a Muslim cartoonist who ridiculed Jesus Christ or the Christianity of the Dutch royal family get the same “free speech” protection? I doubt it; European rules against “insult” would be invoked, and the cartoonist would more likely be suppressed for promoting terrorism.
Crime should be punished. But let’s not misuse our precious freedoms.
BOB BRAGAR
Amsterdam, Jan. 8, 2015
To the Editor:
The decision of The New York Times to report on the murders in Paris of journalists who worked for Charlie Hebdo while not showing a single example of the cartoons that led to their executions is regrettable. There are times for self-restraint, but in the immediate wake of the most threatening assault on journalism in living memory, you would have served the cause of free expression best by engaging in it.
FLOYD ABRAMS
New York, Jan. 8, 2015
 
The writer, a First Amendment lawyer, represented The Times in the Pentagon Papers case.
To the Editor:
Re “Satire, Terrorism and Islam” (column, Jan. 8):
Nicholas Kristof asks whether there is anything about Islam that leads inexorably to violence. A better question is whether Islam, or any religion for that matter, encourages critical questioning and doubt about its beliefs.
When religion is dogmatic, it lends itself to fanaticism and potential violence. Additionally, if religions focused primarily on love and the good of all sentient beings rather than the devotion to questionable metaphysical realities, such as God, there would be less violence and fanaticism in the name of religion.
LOU MATZ
Stockton, Calif., Jan. 8, 2015
 
The writer is a professor of philosophy at University of the Pacific.
