Cartoons and freedom
Wednesday’s unspeakable slaughter in Paris, with Islamic radicals mowing down the staff of the satirical magazine called “Charlie Hebdo” for daring to run cartoon depictions of Mohammed, points to a sea-change in the fight for Western culture against anti-Western barbarism.
Once the fight for free speech was conducted on the lofty terrain of high art. Now, perforce, it must be conducted on less exalted terrain — tasteless and sophomoric would-be humor.
And yet the fight is no less important, because the enemies of free expression today are adopting terrorist tactics to do battle with Western freedoms in an entirely novel and uniquely terrifying way.
There is some commonality between what happened in Paris and the cyberattack against Sony over Seth Rogen’s “The Interview.” The cartoons for which 12 people died in the offices of Charlie Hebdo are gleefully adolescent in their sensibility, just as “The Interview” is.
That sensibility is part of what was so enraging about the cartoons and the movie to those who sought to avenge them.
In the past, the great free-speech battles generally featured states acting against distinguished works of art they mischaracterized as worthless and immoral trash — Flau­bert’s “Madame ­Bovary,” Joyce’s “Ulysses,” Nabokov’s “Lolita.”
Hitler conducted a war against what he called “degenerate art.” Stalin and his successors in the Soviet Union tormented, jailed, and killed the country’s greatest novelists, poets and thinkers.
In these cases, acts of state censorship sought to criminalize the production of art and thereby put these states in conflict with enlightened elite opinion makers who had independent cultural standing and power of their own.
So these weren’t mere battles for free expression; they were fights against provincialism and philistinism.
Not now. For a quarter century, the key free-speech battles in the West have mostly been over works that are almost literally sophomoric and often really are trash.
Hustler magazine’s disgusting pornographic depiction of Jerry Falwell in 1983 proved to be the vehicle by which the Supreme Court affirmed constitutional protections for parody in 1988.
In 1990, a US district court judge in Florida declared that the gross rap lyrics of the group 2Live Crew were works of obscenity and therefore undeserving of First Amendment protection.
This outrageous offense against free speech stood for a year and a half until the 11th Circuit Court of Appeals overturned it.
Fighting for the right of rappers to talk about hos and for Larry Flynt to defame preachers just doesn’t have the same righteous quality as fighting for the publication of “Ulysses,” a novel many (wrongly) considered the greatest of the 20th century.
That also helps explain why the worldwide outrage that greeted Ayatollah Khomeini’s 1989 fatwa against Salman Rushdie upon the publication of “The Satanic Verses” wasn’t duplicated in 2005 when the Jyllands-Posten, a Danish newspaper, published 12 lame cartoons making fun of Mohammed.
The publication led to worldwide protests against the paper; the government of Denmark issued a milquetoast statement in response; most of the political opposition in that country criticized the government for not acting more forcefully 
The publication led to worldwide protests against the paper; the government of Denmark issued a milquetoast statement in response; most of the political opposition in that country criticized the government for not acting more forcefully against the newspaper
The publication led to worldwide protests against the paper; the government of Denmark issued a milquetoast statement in response; most of the political opposition in that country criticized the government for not acting more forcefully against the newspaper.
That response was not just a failure to defend free speech. It was the craven acceptance of the notion that saying anything provocative about Islam was at best irresponsible since it would trigger demonstrations and protests — and that people who did so might in some sense have had it coming to them.
In 2004, in the Netherlands, the filmmaker Theo van Gogh was assassinated for making a movie called “Submission” that took on the mistreatment of women in Islamic countries.
After his killing, his co-writer, Dutch parliamentarian Ayaan Hirsi Ali, needed police protection; a judge revoked that protection; she came under attack in the Dutch media; she left for the United States.
Last year, Brandeis University shamefully revoked the honorary degree she was to have received due to protests by Islamic groups.
The problem here in the United States isn’t limited to craven academic hacks like Brandeis’ loathsome president, Fred Lawrence.
Back in 2012, it was startlingly easy for no less a Western personage than presidential press secretary Jay Carney to attack Charlie Hebdo from his White House podium for its “judgment” in producing “offensive” images even as he was offering pro-forma support for the right to free expression.
After all, these were just silly cartoons; why publish them at all if they were going to offend people?
The Obama administration’s cravenness in this regard, mirrored by the alacrity with which it sought to calm Islamist attacks in Egypt (and on our consulate in Benghazi) in 2012 by attacking a YouTube video called “Innocence of Muslims” and going after its shady maker, represents a low and shameful moment for the nation that invented the First Amendment.
The fantasy in which extremist fanatics and those who listen to them can be mollified by “balanced” appraisals like Carney’s, or by abject surrender on the part of the Fred Lawrences of the world, should have been shattered forever by the events in Paris yesterday.
But for far too many people in positions of power, it has proved dreadfully easy to remain lost in fantasy rather than to accept we are in an existential battle against the world’s most evil men.
