Charlie Hebdo ‘All Is Forgiven’ edition sells out in minutes
The new edition of Charlie Hebdo sold out almost as quickly as it hit French newsstands Wednesday — a week after the terrorists who massacred much of its staff declared the satirical newspaper dead.
“The queues have stretched everywhere, but lots and lots of people are disappointed,” Michel Blanchet, who runs a newsstand near the Gare de l’Est railway station in Paris, told The Daily Mail.
Some lucky Parisians who got up before dawn for a place on line were excited to get a copy to support the satirical weekly.
“It’s important for me to buy it. Given the situation at the moment, I think that all of France will be buying Charlie Hebdo,” Claude Durand told the BBC.
“This issue is symbolic, it represents their persistence, they didn’t yield in the face of terror,” added Catherine Boniface.
The paper, which usually sells about 40,000 copies a week, had a print run of 3 million for this edition — and 2 million more are on the way to meet worldwide demand.
Copies were being advertised for absurd resale prices on eBay, with one person asking for $152,000, CNN ­reported.
The new issue — with a caricature of a weeping Prophet Mohammed holding a “Je Suis Charlie” sign on the cover under the headline “Tout est Pardonne” (“All is Forgiven”) — includes drawings by the slain cartoonists showing a well-known deceased French nun talking about oral sex, while another shows Muslim, Christian and Jewish leaders dividing up the world.
The lead editorial is a powerful defense of secularism in the face of violent religious extremism.
“For the past week, Charlie, an atheist newspaper, has achieved more miracles than all the saints and prophets combined. The one we are most proud of is that you have in your hands the newspaper that we always made,” it read.
Passengers arriving from France at Kennedy Airport Wednesday afternoon said they were too late to get a copy.
“I got to the airport between 7 and 8 and they were all gone already,” said Jeanne Marie Martineau, 27, of Brooklyn, who had been visiting family in France.
On Wednesday, a survivor of the rampage recounted how the paper’s mascot — a lovable Cocker Spaniel named Lila — wandered about the office after the carnage, sniffing the bodies of the dead.
Crime reporter Sigolene Vinson said the dog also trotted over to her after the terrorists spared her life because she was a woman.
“As I lay there, not sure if they were really gone, shots rang out in the distance, in the street. And then I heard Lila with her tiny steps,” she said.
Additional reporting by Gabrielle Fonrouge with Post Wires
