Hook-handed terrorist gets life in prison
Stick his “spork” in him!
Handless hate preacher cleric Abu Hamza al-Masri was sentenced to life in prison Friday following his terror conviction last May on charges of conspiring in a 1998 kidnapping in Yemen that resulted in the deaths of four tourists, attempting to set up a jihadist training camp in Bly, Oregon, and other crimes.
Calling his conduct “barbaric, misguided and wrong,” Manhattan federal Judge Katherine Forrest said a life sentence is warranted because the one-eyed, hook-handed Islamic cleric still believes his actions were justified — and it’s unlikely the “world would be safe” if he were ever released.
“I don’t have any reason to believe you have changed your views or have remorse for the victims,” said Forrest. “… I have every reason to believe if you are free, you would do it again.”
The judge also accused him of lying on the stand at trial and declined to make any recommendation on al-Masri’s future living arrangements, saying that decision should be left with the Bureau of Prisons.
Al-Masri’s lawyers had asked Forrest to recommend the 56-year-old be sent to a prison medical facility rather than a high-security federal prison due to his severe disabilities.
They even offered a photo in recent court filings of a “spork” eating utensil he isn’t happy with that came with his prison-issued prosthetics.
Dressed in a navy blue prison jumpsuit, al-Masri waved his stubs while declaring his “innocence” and saying he “pray[s] the Almighty will allow the truth” to prevail someday. He even bizarrely ranted about a how a new investigation into the 9/11 attacks on the World Trade Center is warranted.
“I would appreciate it if all victims of the wars get together with professional, structural and civil engineers to do an open investigation of how the towers collapsed,” said al-Masri, who testified during his trial he doesn’t believe the Twin Towers were brought down by terrorist-hijacked airliners — but rather pre-planned explosions.
The comments are a stark contrast to remarks al-Masri made during a Canadian TV interview shortly after 9/11 that prosecutors played for the jury.
“Everybody was happy when the planes hit the World Trade Center. Anybody who tell [sic] you he was not happy, they are hypocrites for the Muslim nation,” al-Masri then said.
Referring to Forrest repeatedly as “Madam” throughout his sentencing, al-Masri claimed that spending the past 2 ½ years at the Metropolitan Correctional Center after being extradited from the United Kingdom was equal to “torture” because the Manhattan facility “isn’t equipped” to handle his many disabilities.
He also said he fears it would very difficult “to function” should BOP assign him to Colorado’s Supermax federal prison, sometimes referred to as the “Alcatraz of the Rockies,” or a similar high-security lockup.
Al-Masri’s crimes include helping terrorists communicate via satellite phone during a deadly kidnapping in Yemen, sending cronies to set up an al Qaeda training camp in Bly, Ore., and arranging for least one man to train as a terrorist in Afghanistan.
He initially gained infamy for wearing hooks in place of his missing hands while he delivered fiery sermons against America and Israel at London’s Finsbury Park Mosque.
Although he was allowed to keep his hooks while imprisoned in Britain for inciting murder and racial hatred, American authorities initially took them away as a security risk.
During the trial, he occasionally wore a prosthetic with two hook-shaped clamps, which he used to take notes and even eat doughnuts.
Evidence against al-Masri included video and audio recordings of him shouting at his followers and saying that non-Muslims can be treated like animals.
A victim who was shot in the leg during the kidnapping in Yemen also limped into court to describe her ordeal.
During his testimony, al-Masri denied that he engaged in terrorism or assisted al Qaeda.
He also said he lost his hands, part of his forearms and an eye in a 1993 accident while he was working as civil engineer for the Pakistani military.
Published reports had previously said the injuries came while al-Masri fought the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan.
Al-Masri’s lawyers had urged Forrest to sentence him to a term shorter than life in prison. They are appealing the jury’s decision.
