Bloody Paris
With impeccably bad timing, the day before masked gunmen claiming to avenge the Prophet Mohammed murdered at least 12 innocent people at a French satirical magazine, the president of Turkey, Recep Tayyip Erdogan, gave a speech identifying the real menace afflicting today’s Europe: Islamophobia.
Erdogan no doubt had in mind the rally this past weekend in Dresden. It was sponsored by Pegida, a German acronym for “Patriotic Europeans Against the Islamization of the West.”
Meanwhile, in France, Marine Le Pen’s anti-immigrant, anti-Muslim National Front continues to grow.
Polite society fears Wednesday’s bloodshed at Charlie Hebdo will only feed these and such movements. We suggest polite society has it backwards.
What is primarily feeding these movements is a resentment by ordinary people that their leaders are unwilling to recognize the reality of an Islamist ideology bringing war to their nations.
In this case that will be harder to do. The terrorists shouted “Allahu Akbar” (“God is great”) as they murdered. One claimed they belonged to al Qaeda in Yemen. The paramilitary nature of the operation suggests experience in other jihadist efforts.
Yet though many leaders denounced the attack for its barbarity, few were willing to acknowledge the Islamist roots. These include President Obama, whose administration, by the way, still calls Maj. Nidal Malik Hasan’s rampage at Fort Hood “workplace violence.”
Perhaps these leaders feel that acknowledging the truth will only invite an ugly backlash.
We have more confidence in the good sense and decency of ordinary people, who are more than capable of distinguishing between those who gun down unarmed cartoonists and the peaceful Muslim family down the street.
Point is, so long as Europe’s leaders make it disreputable for their own citizens to bring up the Islamists’ fundamental rejection of all the values — including tolerance — upon which their societies rest, the only outlets for citizens with legitimate grievances will be provided by the kooky and disreputable.
