United in Outrage

The solidarity march of more than one million people in  on Sunday was rich in placards and symbols but appropriately devoid of speeches. Like many in the vast throng that filled the broad boulevards between Place de la République and Place de la Nation, the world leaders who marched a portion of the route with President  locked arms and embraced. But there was no podium, no pulpit, only ubiquitous signs reading “Je suis Charlie.” For the moment, that said it all.
Charlie, as the world has come to know, is , the satirical weekly tabloid that was attacked by two radical Islamist gunmen on Wednesday. An apparent ally of those gunmen allegedly killed a policewoman and burst into a kosher supermarket in Paris, murdering several people there. In the end, 17 people and the three terrorists were dead, and “Je suis Charlie” swiftly became a declaration of solidarity and grief, displayed on kiosks, armbands, headbands, TV screens and banners.
There were some other signs, too — “I am Charlie, cop, Jew” read some, and many displayed a simple pencil, symbol for the freedom of expression that came under attack when the brothers Chérif and Saïd Kouachi massacred cartoonists and editors at Charlie Hebdo, evidently because the magazine had published cartoons satirizing the Prophet Muhammad.
There’s much that can and should be discussed as a result of the tragedy — about freedom of the press, about the growing backlash across  against Muslim immigrants, about Islamist terrorism and Islamic fundamentalism. Certainly many of the dozens of national leaders in the Paris march — including the leaders of Britain, , Spain, Italy, , , , the  and  — could have said plenty. Many of their countries have known vicious terrorist attacks in recent years; many are contending with rising anti-immigrant movements. The White House will gather leaders in  next month for a summit meeting on preventing terrorism, the American attorney general,  Jr., announced.
But with the horror and fears raised by the attacks still fresh, it was important and proper that the first response in Paris — as elsewhere in France, across Europe and across the Atlantic — was a resounding and united demonstration of outrage and solidarity. Simply by turning out in vast numbers, the marchers eloquently demonstrated a shared conviction that Charlie Hebdo was exercising a right fundamental to democracy, the right of free expression. No perceived provocation, no grievance and certainly no religious conviction justifies killing those who wield only a pen.
The Charlie Hebdo murders are certain to intensify exploration for effective ways to combat terrorism. The probability that one of the Kouachi brothers had trained with  and was on American watch lists should prompt a search for better cooperation and communication among Western allies and new ways to deal with the veteran jihadists who return to Europe after training and fighting with groups abroad.
Perhaps the greatest danger in the wake of the massacres is that more Europeans will come to the conclusion that all Muslim immigrants on the Continent are carriers of a great and mortal threat. Anti-immigrant sentiments were already at a dangerous level, making it essential for national and pan-European leaders in coming days to underscore that extremism is not inherent to the Muslim faith, and that the Islamists themselves are hardly a single entity.
