Charlie Hebdo terrorists separated men and women before executions
The terrorist brothers who stormed the offices of a satirical Paris newspaper separated the men from the women before they identified their targets and shot them at close range with Kalashnikov assault rifles.
The details emerged Thursday from witness accounts of the bloody rampage at weekly Charlie Hebdo that left editors, writers and cartoonists dead and survivors lying in shock amid the bodies of dead colleagues.
Sigolene Vinson, a freelance journalist attending the paper’s weekly editorial meeting, hit the floor and hid behind a partition but was grabbed by a gunman who pointed his AK-47 at her head.
“You, we will not kill, because we don’t kill women. But read the Quran,” the gunman warned her, before repeatedly shouting “Allahu akbar” — Arabic for “God is great.”
Another female journalist who survived the attack sent a text message to a friend.
“I’m alive. There is death all around me. Yes, I am there. The jihadists spared me,” the message read, according to the Times of London.
Despite the jihadists’ claims to spare women, the dead included Elsa Cayat, a psychoanalyst and columnist.
The al Qaeda-linked gunmen forced their way into the Islam-mocking paper’s offices at 11:30 a.m.
After culling the women from the men, the victims were mercilessly shot at point-blank range, said Gerald Kierzek, a doctor who spoke to CNN after treating the stunned survivors.
Kierzek said the murders were carried out with coldblooded precision rather than a hail of machine-gun fire, leaving the dead and even some survivors with what looked like battlefield wounds.
“They were all hit by bullets, mainly in the face or chest. One was hit in the leg, but the size of the wound was such that his life is on the line,” he told The Telegraph.
In less than a minute, eight journalists around the large oval table in the meeting room were dead at the hands of the terrorists, whom French police have identified as brothers Cherif and Said Kouachi.
Four others were also killed, including two police officers, one of whom was guarding the paper’s editorial director and cartoonist Stephane Charbonnier, who was also slain.
Other developments on Thursday:
