Charlie Hebdo suspects, kosher-market gunman killed; 4 hostages die in rescue attempt

In a hail of gunfire and deafening explosions, French police ended three days of terror Friday with simultaneous raids that killed the two al Qaeda-linked Charlie Hebdo murderers and a jihadi cohort who was holding hostages in a Parisian market.
Heavily armed cops gunned down brothers Cherif and Said Kouachi as they ran from a printing plant near Charles de Gaulle Airport and opened fire on security forces with Kalashnikov machine guns — the same rifles they used to massacre 12 people in Wednesday’s attack on the satirical newspaper in Paris.
Black-clad commandos rappelled onto the building’s roof from a helicopter and threw flash grenades to disorient the terrorists, who had been inside for nine hours before they emerged with guns blazing.
Cops were guided by a brave employee who hid in a box in the plant and contacted them by cellphone, detailing the building’s layout and the terrorists’ location.
At about the same time, police stormed a kosher market 25 miles to the southeast in Paris and killed the third fanatic, Amedy Coulibaly, in a raid that freed 15 hostages but left four dead.
Five other hostages were critically wounded. Another 30 escaped harm by hiding in a sub-basement walk-in freezer, keeping silent while shivering in the cold.
In other developments:
One of the kosher-market hostages, Johan Dorre, a 36-year-old father of four, made a call to his uncle while hiding in the freezer with others during the market siege.
“Johan and the others were terrified that they would be discovered by the terrorists and were forced to huddle together like frightened animals to avoid hypothermia,” another uncle, Jacob Katorza, told the Daily Mail.
Police had hacked into the store’s video surveillance system and said they heard what was happening inside because Coulibay had left a phone off the hook.
They moved in, believing he was about to kill hostages, when they heard him reciting Islamic prayers.
Video at the market showed hysterical hostages, including women and kids, being led to safety as sirens wailed and ambulances sped the injured to hospitals.
Coulibay had warned cops he would kill the hostages if police launched an assault on the Kouachis, but it was unclear late Friday how or when the captives had died.
He placed chilling phone calls to others from the scene, urging them to stage more terror attacks, Agence France-Presse reported.
The twin raids, both at about 5 p.m. local time, came two days after the brothers — both members of a French Islamist terror cell — slaughtered the eight journalists along with two cops and two other people.
On Thursday, Coulibaly and his wife allegedly executed a young female police officer, who had been on the job for 15 days.
In all, 17 innocent people were killed in what authorities called the worst peacetime attack on French soil in living memory.
The four suspects had ties to one another and to terrorism that reached back years and extended from Paris to Yemen. All were members of a terror cell known as the Buttes Chaumont.
Experts called it an alliance of violent Islamic radicals who recruited volunteers to fight the US-led war in Iraq and later plotted to try to break an Algerian terrorist out of a French prison.

The Kouachis had led cops on a chase across northeast France, robbing a gas station Thursday and stealing a car Friday morning before seizing hostages at the printing plant in Dammartin-en-Goele, a town near the airport.
“They said they want to die as martyrs,” Yves Albarello, a local lawmaker who was inside the police command post, told French television station i-Tele.
Said Kouachi trained with and fought for al Qaeda in Yemen until 2012, sources said.
Cherif Kouachi, 32, was convicted of terrorism charges in 2008 for ties to the cell that sent jihadis to fight US forces in Iraq.
In his remarks to French BMFTV, which contacted him in the plant, Cherif said he targeted the newspaper for mocking the Prophet Mohammed.
Coulibably, 32, later phoned the station to say his own actions were “synchronized” with the rampage at Charlie Hebdo.
With Post Wire Services
