Victims of the Terror Attacks in Paris

Among the 12 people who were killed in the attack Wednesday on the satirical newspaper Charlie Hebdo were cartoonists, a proofreader, a maintenance worker and two police officers. A police officer was killed the next day in a Paris suburb, and four hostages were killed at a kosher supermarket in eastern Paris on Friday.
These are profiles of the victims.
AT CHARLIE HEBDO
Stéphane Charbonnier
Mr. Charbonnier, 47, known as Charb, was the editorial director of Charlie Hebdo and the face of the newspaper’s defiant stance on publishing cartoons depicting the Prophet Muhammad. Mr. Charbonnier was a staunch left-wing activist, raised in a family of communists, said Daniel Leconte, a filmmaker who was making a documentary about the cartoonists. “He has this education, and this culture, which was one part of his personality, but at the same time he was totally radical.” Mr. Charbonnier’s insistence on publishing depictions of the prophet was not about religious ideology. It was, Mr. Leconte said, about “freedom, liberté.”
Elsa Cayat
Ms. Cayat, 54, the only woman killed in the attack, was a psychiatrist, psychoanalyst and columnist for Charlie Hebdo, where she wrote a bimonthly column called Le Divan (The Couch), the newspaper Le Parisien reported. Her aunt, the author Jacqueline Raoul-Duval, said that Ms. Cayat had found a “second family” in her colleagues at the satirical weekly, according to ELLE magazine.
Georges Wolinski
Mr. Wolinski, 80, was born in Tunisia to a French-Italian mother and a Jewish father from Poland. “He loved life, alcohol, women,” Mr. Leconte said. “A free man. I loved him.” He was very prolific and reveled in broad caricature and in skewering taboos, said Françoise Mouly, the art editor of The New Yorker. Nothing, she said, was sacred to Mr. Wolinski — neither the feminist movement nor religion — and his willingness to push limits was an inspiration to many contemporary artists. “Certainly he managed to transcend bad taste,” she said, with a drawing style that was deliberately quick and rough but that focused on ideas. “He made it his trademark,” she said.
Bernard Maris
Mr. Maris, 68, an economist, author and columnist for France Inter radio who also contributed to Charlie Hebdo, was killed alongside cartoonists at the weekly newspaper’s editorial meeting. His death was announced by Radio France’s chief executive, Mathieu Gallet, on Twitter on Wednesday afternoon. “Our collaborator Bernard Maris is one of the victims of the attack against Charlie Hebdo,” he wrote. “France Inter is crying and our thoughts go out to his family.” Mr. Maris was also an economics professor at Université Paris 8.
