Kerry honors Charlie Hebdo victims, trots out James Taylor
WASHINGTON – After a major US diplomatic flub, Secretary of State John Kerry brought along folk singer James Taylor to Paris to help mend fences and pay his respects to the terror-stricken French nation.
Kerry, the highest ranking US official to visit France since the terror attacks that killed 17, said he came “to share a big hug with all of Paris and all my friends.”
He added: “I wanted to express to you personally the sheer horror and revulsion of all Americans for the cowardly and despicable assault on innocent lives.”
Kerry met with France’s Foreign Minister Laurent Fabius and President Francois Hollande, and spoke to a crowd at the ornate Hotel de Ville, or city hall, that included family members of victims of the attacks.
Then Kerry turned things over to Taylor, who has become a go-to singer after tragic events. He also played at a benefit after the Boston Marathon attack.
Playing his acoustic guitar, Taylor began by finger-picking the melody of La Marseillaise, the French national anthem.
Then he worked his way into his iconic hit, “You’ve Got a Friend.”

“When you’re down and troubled and you need some loving care. And nothing, whoa nothing is going right,” Taylor began.
“Winter, spring, summer, or fall, all you have to do is call, and I’ll be there, yeah, yeah, you’ve got a friend.”
The event was called an “Homage de John Kerry a Paris.”
Hollande said the French people “were the victims of an exceptional terrorist attack. We must therefore together find the necessary response.”
Later, Kerry and Fabius laid a wreath at the Hyper Cacher kosher market, one of the two sites that had been attacked last week. The wreath was just the latest addition to a long stretch of flowers and candles that have been placed alongside police barriers that surround the market.
At the market, Kerry and Fabius spoke briefly with Joel Mergui, the head of France’s Rabbinical Council, before heading to the memorial to those killed at the Charlie Hebdo satirical newspaper by gunmen claiming to be acting on behalf of al Qaeda’s Yemen branch to avenge the publication of cartoons mocking the Prophet Muhammad.
There, at a makeshift memorial down the street from the newspaper’s office, they laid another wreath and were joined by Francois Vauglin, the mayor of the district.
Kerry, accompanied by US Ambassador to France Jane Hartley, later walked the short distance to where a Paris police officer was killed by the gunmen and placed flowers at the site.
The White House admitted it was a mistake not to send a more high profile official to a memorial march in Paris last Sunday that drew a million people.
Dozens of world leaders and a million people joined the march, Hartley was the top American official in attendance.
Kerry, who was making his 19th trip to Paris as the top US diplomat, was in India during the unity march.
