The impact of Charlie Hebdo Americans now back Muhammad cartoons
Nine years ago, six in 10 Americans said it was irresponsible for newspapers to run cartoons depicting the prophet Muhammad over Muslims' objections. Today, six in 10 say they are okay with the newspapers doing just that.
If the terrorists who killed 11 people at a satirical newspaper in Paris earlier this month changed anything, it's pushing the media more toward publishing such cartoons.
In addition to causing many publications to run such images as they were talking about the motivation for the attacks, a new poll from the Pew Research Center shows those who have been following the matter say strongly that publishing cartoons depicting the prophet Muhammad is okay, 60 percent to 28 percent.

There's no direct comparison to previous polling asking the same question, but the 32-point edge in favor of publishing the cartoon appears markedly different from a similar poll conducted the last time such cartoons were in the news, in 2005 and 2006.
As we wrote earlier this month, a USA Today/CNN/Gallup poll in February 2006 showed those numbers reversed. About twice as many Americans thought the European newspapers who published such images were acting irresponsibly (61 percent) than those who thought it was responsible to publish them (29 percent).
Of course, while the questions are similar, asking if it's "responsible" is not the same as asking if it's "okay." The latter is perhaps a higher bar.
The same USA Today/CNN/Gallup poll asked another question getting at the issue from a broader perspective, asking whether newspapers have an obligation to publish such images that some religions find objectionable. Fifty-seven percent said they did, while 33 percent disagreed.
But the question, while asked in the context of the Muhammad cartoons, did not specifically refer to them.
Other polls in the mid-2000s showed that, while Americans might have been hesitant about the publishing of such cartoons, they thought the violent Muslim demonstrations that ensued went too far -- something that is undoubtedly even truer today.
Ever since the terrorist attacks in Paris shortly after the New Year, U.S. media have been debating within their newsrooms whether to publish the cartoon that ran immediately before the terrorist attack. Many smaller publications have run the image, and The Washington Post has run it on its editorial page. Most of the major broadcast and news stations, along with the New York Times, have chosen not to show the image.
Also notably, opinions on the matter in the United States appear to be more in favor of publishing the cartoons than in France. A recent poll there showed 42 percent of French people said such cartoons should not continue to be published. Fifty-seven percent disagreed.
