Why grant anonymity to a terrorist Jeremy Scahill explains.
Big media outlets today are busy reporting the news that al-Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula (AQAP) has taken responsibility for last week’s Charlie Hebdo attack. A video released by this branch of al-Qaeda is authentic, according to the director of national intelligence, though U.S. officials aren’t ready to confirm the group’s claim that it helped orchestrate the killings.
Last Friday, the Intercept’s Jeremy Scahill reported pretty much the same set of facts. “AL QAEDA SOURCE: AQAP DIRECTED PARIS ATTACK,” was the headline on Scahill’s story, which includes a full statement of responsibility from the group. The scoop relied on an AQAP source who “demanded anonymity because the group had not yet released an official statement.” In addition to providing the official word on the attack, the source told Scahill that the previous edition of the al-Qaeda publication “Inspire” contained a “clue” regarding the imminence of the Charlie Hebdo massacre.
A modicum of Twitter-based skepticism met Scahill’s story:



The Erik Wemple Blog today sent a bundle of questions to Scahill about terrorists and anonymous sources, and he responded with a extensive response, the gist of which is: Just as anonymous sourcing is sometimes critical to reporting on government, so it is vis-a-vis terrorists.
“Being able to interview AQAP sources before such statements are officially announced is part of doing aggressive, informative journalism and I will continue to do this,” writes Scahill in an e-mail. “As I stated in my original story on this, we granted anonymity to the AQAP source because the group had not yet released an official statement. Sound familiar? We read that rationale all the time in big newspapers about anonymous US officials.”
Though Scahill says that, as a rule, he doesn’t support granting anonymity to top U.S. government officials, he has agreed to such arrangements in “very limited cases.” As for the AQAP source in Friday’s story, Scahill argues that the case for anonymity is particularly firm: “Another factor here is that this source’s life would potentially be endangered if I identified the source by name, which is exactly when anonymity is most justified. We had to weigh the benefit of this story against granting anonymity, and decided that verified claims of responsibility for the attacks, which we could only report if we granted anonymity, was important enough to justify it.”
The decision to confer anonymity, says Scahill, was a collective one that drew in Editor-in-Chief Betsy Reed, two senior editors, general counsel and Scahill himself. The Intercept is the national security-oriented digital magazine of First Look Media, a creation of eBay founder Pierre Omidyar. “I believe that, as journalists, we have a responsibility to interview and understand the people and groups we are told we are at war with. That means talking to al Qaeda, ISIS, AQAP and others,” says Scahill.
He, of course, is not alone on this front. The New York Times, in a story today on the developments, used information from an anonymous “member of Al Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula.” The New York Times hasn’t yet responded to an interview request regarding the handling of such things. Washington Post national security reporter Adam Goldman tweeted today: 

Jay Rosen, a former adviser to First Look Media, once issued a ranking of scoop categories, in which the “ego scoop” is described as an instance “where the news would have come out anyway -– typically because it was announced or would have been announced -– but some reporter managed to get ahead of the field and break it before anyone else.” Is that what Scahill did? No, he says: “At the time we published that, it was unclear that an official statement was forthcoming soon. Sometimes AQAP waits quite a while to take responsibility. My motivation was not to be first, but to provide information that would be of public value.”
Full Scahill response:
In re: Rosen’s “ego scoop”:
