In Week 1 for Mayor Muriel Bowser, a likely recurring theme Expect the unexpected
On her fifth day as the city’s new mayor, Muriel E. Bowser was about to announce cold-weather precautions when, a few blocks from where she stood in Southeast Washington, a police officer fired at an armed man who had just tried to rob a store.
The weather update would wait.
Instead, Bowser (D) found herself introducing to an audience of reporters the police chief, who described how the officer’s bullet had struck a bystander in a barbershop.
Bowser then announced that a “gas leak” had forced the evacuation of a school. She gave an update on power outages around Dupont Circle. When it was time for questions, a reporter greeted her as “Madam Mayor” before asking whether the District was taking any precautions after the terrorist attack that morning in Paris.
In her first week as mayor, Bowser assumed responsibility for the vexing challenges of running the nation’s capital, with its $250 million budget deficit, recent spike in shootings, struggling school system, persistent homeless population and ever-growing divide between its wealthiest and poorest residents.
But what Bowser discovered is something mayors everywhere know all too well: Unforeseen events can overwhelm any moment, whether it’s a police shooting, a bigger-than-anticipated snowfall or, as happened Monday, an incident in which a Metro tunnel filled with smoke, leaving one dead and sending dozens to hospitals.
For better or worse, Bowser was no longer in her proverbial Kansas — Ward 4, the city’s northernmost council district — where she presided for seven years as a largely unknown legislator before winning the mayoralty in November.
Atop the city’s political pyramid, Bowser basked in salutations and wielded newfound gravitas as she navigated the hurly-burly that defines the life of a big-city mayor.
One moment, she was at her inauguration, hoisting up the city seal like a newly crowned boxing champion. At another moment she was on “Meet the Press,” touted by host Chuck Todd — the husband of a Bowser campaign adviser — as the woman who now runs Washington.
And then, 48 hours later, she was explaining why major and not-so-major streets were unplowed after a few inches of snow fell on the city.
“Yes, I’m still excited,” Bowser said while acknowledging complaints that her team had delivered a less than sterling response to the snow. She smiled. “A little bit of snow isn’t going to still our excitement.”
As her first week on the job ended, the District lost its quest to host the 2024 Olympics, among the few specific goals Bowser set in her inaugural address.
“All was not lost,” the new mayor said in a statement released by her office.
As the new mayor, Bowser has to deal with the city’s $11 billion budget, 35,000 government employees and 650,000 residents — not to mention the security detail that arrived at her front door and won’t leave for at least four years. (The city has filed for a permit to build a security fence at her house.)
Former mayor Sharon Pratt, who served from 1991 to 1995, said the adjustment — professional and personal — is formidable. “There’s a complete loss of spontaneity,” she said. “Where you could once say, ‘I’m taking a walk’ — that’s all gone. Suddenly the police are up in your home, and you’re wondering if you won or lost.”
Then there is moving into a new office, hiring agency heads and recruiting staff members. Bowser said she was relocating her office from the sixth floor of the John A. Wilson Building to the third floor, as had her mentor, former mayor Adrian M. Fenty.
“You own the store now,” said Neil Albert, the deputy mayor for planning and economic development under Fenty. “During the transition, you’re measuring the curtains. But now it’s, ‘Oh, damn — own this.’ ”
Thirty-five years ago, as he became the city’s second mayor, Marion Barry signaled a new era by announcing the hiring of nine special assistants and releasing his public schedule, something his predecessor, Walter E. Washington, had not done in more than 10 years.
When she took office in January 1991, Pratt found herself dealing with a projected $300 million deficit and immediately ordered $130 million in budget cuts. Anthony Williams announced his arrival by threatening to fire senior officials who did not meet his standards. Fenty released a “100-day action plan,” introduced his new police chief, Cathy L. Lanier, and moved forward with plans to take over the public schools.
“The first thing you’re trying to do is make an impression. You’re trying to show everyone that you’re hitting the ground running,” said Julius Hobson, a former school board member who has long been active in District politics. “You have to be out there so people can see that you’re on the job.”
Referring to Bowser’s “Meet the Press” appearance, which she made with Lanier and Schools Chancellor Kaya Henderson, Hobson said: “The upside is that they were on ‘Meet the Press.’ But the downside is that they were on ‘Meet the Press.’ People will hold you accountable. They don’t care if you’re in charge 20 minutes or 20 days. You’re now the face of the government.”
If she needed any reminder of her newfound status, Bowser got it on her first workday, when no fewer than three camera crews camped out in a hallway to record her arrival at a Capitol Hill news conference, where she pledged support for Del. Eleanor Holmes Norton’s quest for a committee vote in Congress.
“Terrific appearance on ‘Meet the Press,’ ” Norton told the mayor, before stepping in front of the cameras and praising her several more times.
Bowser hailed Norton as a “fierce” fighter for the city and described her as “probably the most popular woman in the District of Columbia.”
The moment became fodder for Bowser’s official Twitter account, which provided a rolling narrative of her days, including an otherwise unpublicized shopping trip to Costco and a meeting with Virginia Gov. Terry McAuliffe (D).
“Making housing more affordable and creating more good paying jobs are my top priorities as mayor,” read one tweet to her 4,219 followers.
“If you ain’t got no job, you can’t afford a house in the District,” read another.
On Tuesday, after snow fell on the city, she held a press briefing and then toured “snow response in Barracks Row SE,” as her Twitter account described the visit.
A gaggle of reporters chased after her.
“It’s your first snow, Mayor — what do you think?” a television reporter asked.
“How has your team done?” asked another.
“I think it’s important that the government get things right,” Bowser responded, her tone measured. “Clearing the snow is what cities do.”
“There are things we can do better,” she said, a sentiment she repeated more than once.
When an aide suggested the mayor might move on, a reporter said, “We’d like to see her interact with people.”
“Okay, let me put my bag down,” the mayor said, before walking north along Eighth Street SE, where she introduced herself to pedestrians and proprietors.
“Muriel Bowser,” she said to one.
“Hi, I’m Muriel,” she said to another.
A man stopped her to complain that the bus he takes every morning is always dirty.
“Thanks for sharing that with me,” she answered.
“What y’all up to?” she asked a group of teenagers, advising them when they said that school closed early that they should head for a library.
At one point, Bowser saw a homeless woman camped out in a vacant storefront and instructed an aide to check on her. The mayor kept walking, noting aloud that a Starbucks had not cleared the snow in front of its entrance.
A few minutes later, the mayor turned and walked back in the direction from which she had come, again passing the homeless woman.
“Hello, Ms. Mayor — congratulations, girl!” shouted a woman who popped out of a shop.
Bowser stopped and turned.
“Thank you, darling,” the mayor said, reaching for her hand.
