Bono hid in restaurant during Nice attack, report says
 frontman  was at a Nice cafe just blocks from where a madman was plowing through crowds of people watching the fireworks for Bastille Day, according to a French report.
The 56-year-old Irish rocker, who owns a house in Eze, was eating dinner with some pals on the terrace of the fancy La Petite Maison on Thursday night when hordes of petrified people started streaming into the streets near the restaurant.
They were fleeing the Promenade des Anglais, where Mohamed Bouhlel mowed down scores of revelers with a 20-ton truck — .
“Suddenly, I saw people running without shouting,” owner Anne-Laure Rubi told .
Rubi instructed her employees to close the shutters and everyone in the restaurant — including Bono, the former mayor of Nice and celebrity chef Alain Ducasse — hid for about half an hour until police cleared the area.
They were all escorted out of the restaurant with their hands on their heads, a frightened customer told the French publication.
“The situation was very confusing. We did not know what was happening,” the patron said, adding that there were fears that bombs could go off in the area and that there was a hostage situation unfolding at the nearby Meridien hotel.
This is the second time Bono has been dangerously close to a terror attack in France — he was just a few miles away from the horror that unfolded at the Bataclan theater last November.
His band was in Paris last November prepping for a concert at the AccorHotels Arena that was supposed to be broadcast live on HBO when the wave of coordinated ISIS attacks at the concert hall, cafes and restaurants across the city killed 130 people and injured 368.
The rockers stayed in Paris in wake of the attacks and all brought flowers to the Bataclan, where 89 people attending an Eagles of Death Metal concert were slaughtered, the following morning.
It’s just one of many times Bono has brushed death.
The door to U2’s private jet flew off during a flight from Dublin to Berlin last November -— causing most of their luggage to fly out the sky-high door.
He also seriously injured himself in a cycling accident in Central Park in 2014, requiring two surgeries that rendered him unable to play the guitar for months.
 in the 

