American student confirmed dead in Bastille Day attack
BERKELEY, Calif. — An American student from the University of California, Berkeley was identified Sunday as one of the 84 killed in Thursday’s Bastille Day truck attack on the French city of Nice, according to statement from his school.
The university said the FBI informed school officials that the body of 20-year-old Nicolas Leslie, from Del Mar in the San Diego area, had been identified. Leslie was a junior at Berkeley’s College of Natural Resources.
“This is tragic, devastating news,” UC Berkeley Chancellor Nicholas Dirks said in a statement. “All of us in the UC Berkeley family — both here on campus, and around the world — are heartbroken to learn that another promising young student has been lost to senseless violence.”
Another Berkeley student, Tarishi Jain, was among the hostages killed by militants in Dhaka, Bangladesh earlier this month.
Other Berkeley students had been plastering Nice with flyers asking for any information on Leslie and his missing classmates, and members of his family had raced to Nice in the aftermath of the attack and had been searching for him.
Leslie was among three foreign students studying technology entrepreneurship at the European Innovation Academy who had been among the missing from the attack.
The other program participants still unaccounted for are 22-year-old Canada-based Ukrainian national Misha Bazelevsky and 21-year-old Estonian Rickard Kruusberg, Annie Seneard, a communication officer at the Nice branch of the academy, told the Associated Press.
Three other UC Berkeley students were injured in the attack, all suffering broken bones, according to the school statement. Two, Vladyslav Kostiuk, 23, and Diane Huang, 20, have been released from the hospital and returned to their summer dorms, while a third, 21-year-old Daryus Medora, remained hospitalized.
A vigil for the latest victims was planned for Monday at the University.
A message left for the FBI on Leslie by The AP wasn’t immediately returned.
