Inside the twisted life of the Bastille Day terrorist
The terrorist who killed 86 people with a truck in Nice, France, last July was a terror at home, too — abusing her in absolutely disgusting fashion, according to a new report.
ISIS-inspired jihadist Mohamed Lahouaiej Bouhlel, 31, would urinate on his wife’s feet, pour wine on her face as she slept, smear his feces on the walls, and even butcher his kids’ stuffed animals with a knife amid tantrums, according to a GQ article titled “The Untold Story of the Bastille Day Attacker.”
On July 14, the Tunisian-born Bouhlel went on a truck rampage along the French Riviera, killing 86 people and injuring 434. Police shot him dead in the cab of the truck. 
ISIS claimed responsibility for the carnage, which occurred on Bastille Day, a celebration of the beginning of the French Revolution in 1789.
Bouhlel’s ex-wife, Hajer Khalfallah, said he had tortured the family with his antics several years earlier so that she would divorce him and enable him to engage in sex with other women.
The pair, first cousins, married in 2006 and at first, they enjoyed a warm relationship, GQ said.
But things quickly soured when Bouhlel began whining about Khalfallah’s cooking and her lack of interest in having sex, GQ reported. Bouhlel dubbed her sex drive “not suitably strong.”
He would break into fits of rage when Khalfallah would leave their Nice apartment, the magazine ­reported.
“He wanted to push me to divorce him so that he could go live a bachelor’s life, go out with girls, go clubbing,” she said. 
Bouhlel finally got his wish. The couple divorced two years before the Nice attack.
His life became even more ­unhinged in the weeks leading up to the massacre.
While on vacation from his job as a deliveryman, he spent his time obsessively taking selfies, watching videos of beheadings and terrorizing friends and family with threatening text messages.
“I thought he wanted to hurt me, because I’m in serious conflict with his sister,” his brother-in-law told police, according to GQ.
Bouhlel also developed an obsession with Islam, diving deeply into the Koran’s teachings, growing out his beard and chastising a friend for listening to music, the magazine said. 
And he consumed every bit of ­information on the June 2016 massacre at the Pulse nightclub in ­Orlando, Fla., also reportedly ­inspired by the Islamic State.
