Berkeley student killed in Nice was second from that university to die in a terrorist attack this month
Hundreds of people are expected to attend a campus vigil Monday for Nicolas Leslie, a 20-year-old student at the University of California at Berkeley, who was killed in the terrorist attack on Nice, France, last week.
  [ 
Leslie was one of 84 people who died when a man drove a truck into a crowd of people in the French Riviera who had been watching fireworks. The man then opened fire on the crowd.
Another 200 people were injured, including three Berkeley students. Two of those students, who were on the same summer entrepreneurship program with Leslie, have been released from the hospital to their dormitory in Nice, according to a statement from Berkeley. The third remains hospitalized with a broken leg.
The loss comes just two weeks after another Berkeley student, 18-year-old Tarishi Jain, was killed by Islamic militants in a terrorist attack, an 11-hour hostage standoff at a restaurant in Bangladesh. Jain was in Bangladesh for a summer internship, according to Berkeley officials, and had helped to created a clothing line that reinvested its profits to give microloans to low-income people.
  [ 
The FBI notified university officials of Leslie’s death.
“This is tragic, devastating news,” Berkeley Chancellor Nicholas Dirks said in a statement late Sunday. “All of us in the UC Berkeley family — both here on campus, and around the world — are heartbroken to learn that another promising young student has been lost to senseless violence. I join Nick’s parents, friends and the entire campus community in condemning this horrific attack, and in mourning the loss of one of our own.”
Alberto Carlos Leslie, his uncle, asked for prayers for Nicolas’s parents, who had been expecting to find him in Nice — perhaps injured, but alive. He asked “for prayers for strength, for light, for positive energy, just love,” and for them to know that “they’re loved and that when they come back.”
“We’re waiting for them to bring him home.”
Nicolas Leslie, from Del Mar, Calif., was an environmental sciences major at Berkeley and had planned to study at the Haas School of Business in the fall. On Facebook, he had posts about a student consulting group with which he was involved, and photos from beautiful places, kite-surfing and hiking.  

Many people posted tributes to him and other victims of the attack on social media.
“So incredibly sad to lose such an amazing kid who had such a bright future,” one wrote. “My thoughts go out to him and his family who are going through more than I can imagine. RIP Nick”
Staff researcher Jennifer Jenkins contributed to this report. 
Save
Save
