Trump on Syrian refugees in US They're going back; What do we know about Brussels terrorists
This is a rush transcript from "Hannity," March 22, 2016. This copy may not be in its final form and may be updated.
SEAN HANNITY, HOST: And this is a Fox News Alert. Two major stories that are breaking tonight. Republican and Democratic presidential candidates are facing off in the Arizona primaries and the Utah caucuses.  Now, the polls in Arizona are now officially closed, and results could come at any moment. The Democrats are also holding their primary in Idaho. And Republicans in American Samoa are participating in caucuses there.
Now, 2016 GOP front-runner Donald Trump will join us in just a few minutes.  We'll get his take on the terror attacks from earlier today. Now, Europe is on high alert after the city of Brussels was rocked by radical Islamists earlier today.
Joining us now live from London tonight with the very latest is our own Shepard Smith. Shep, what do you got?
SHEPARD SMITH, FOX NEWS ANCHOR: Sean, good morning from London, 2:00 AM here, 3:00 o'clock in the morning over in Brussels, where mourners came together to -- at a memorial, a makeshift memorial to mourn the passing of the 30 or more who died in these attacks. A final number is still not known.
Some people in the city saying they dreaded something like this. There had certainly been warnings that something was coming, though not specific, and many in Brussels saying they're not surprised.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: It honestly really hasn't sank in yet for me personally because I never really believed that something could happen here in Brussels. But yes, it's clearly here.
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: It's sad day for us. Brussels is a fantastic place, and I don't want anyone to destroy this beauty that we live with here.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
SMITH: Security forces in Brussels have been carrying out raids and sweeps throughout the day on Tuesday and overnight. They say inside one apartment, they found a bomb packed with nails, along with chemicals and an Islamic State flag.
Now, a Belgian newspaper is reporting that a taxi driver claims that he had picked up those three men at that home and to bring them to the airport, but they wouldn't let him touch their luggage or help with it in any way.  Prosecutors say the two men in black on the left blew themselves up with explosive vests. We're told a third man was some sort of handler, and that he escaped from the scene without blowing up his own bomb.
The Islamic State is now claiming responsibility for the attack that began this morning in the crowded Brussels airport, outside security, as travelers checked in for their flights at the counter. Two bombs on luggage carts there detonated back to back. They blew out windows, tore through walls, wounded people in their lower extremities especially, sent a ceiling crashing to the floor, and cameras caught the moments after the blast.
Many victims appeared dazed in that aftermath. Smoke and dust made it difficult to breathe or even see. And those who could see described a gruesome sight, pools of blood, bodies with missing legs. Belgian media report at least one bomb was filled with nails that went flying in all directions, slicing through victims.
We're told at least nine Americans are among the wounded, including three missionaries from Utah. The 19-year-old man in the middle here is a survivor of the Boston Marathon bombing, as it turns out. That's according to his family. The Pentagon is weighing in, confirming a U.S. Air Force service member was also hurt, along with five of that airman's relatives.  We're told several of them are now in critical condition overnight.
As emergency crews responded to the airport late on Tuesday, another bombing hit the heart of Brussels, near the headquarters of the European Union. You can see the force of the blast in a photo, the metal doors of that train twisted outwards, seats on the train burned and crumpled. Those blurred objects at the bottom of the picture there are blurred on purpose because those are victims' bodies.
Inside the train tunnel, survivors were left to find their way in the dark.  Outside, the carnage was obvious, survivors crying and hugging, the wounded lying helplessly on the ground.
Officials in Belgium call all of this the country's worst disaster since World War II. And tonight, in the overnight hours, reaction coming from around the globe, the French prime minister saying simply, We are all at war now, President Obama saying the United States stands in solidarity with Belgium. He ordered flags lowered to half-staff for the victims.
Here in London, at number 10 Downing Street, the flags of Brussels and the Union Jack at half-staff at first light in the morning as all of Europe, Sean, is on high alert tonight overnight.
HANNITY: Another sad terrorist attack. Shep, let me ask you this.  Clearly, this was in retaliation for the arrest Friday of the Paris mastermind. Do we know the extent of interrogation that is going forward?  ISIS has promised more attacks and more retaliation. Do we know to the extent of interrogation -- in other words, he would probably have knowledge, I've got to assume, of other terror cells that are in the area or elsewhere around Europe.
SMITH: They're not being specific about that matter, but Sean, they are saying this, that they believe this attack had to have been long planned, most likely prior, investigators say, to the arrest of Salah Abdeslam, the one you mentioned, the man who's now in custody. They say they believe that would have already been planned.
The question is, was this attack expedited because they fear he might be saying something that they don't want released? Remember, Salah Abdeslam, the early word was that he chickened out or something to that degree. But when they found him, when they found him in that home a few days ago, he was armed with an AK-47. He was believed to be actively involved in the planning of other attacks.
Was this one of those attacks? If authorities know, they haven't told us.  If they know who the suspects are, they aren't yet releasing that.  Hopeful, Sean, hopeful here that come first light in about four hours, we'll get more information from authorities on that.
HANNITY: All right, Shep, very hopeful. Thanks so much for joining us so late in the morning -- well, early in the morning where you are. Thank you.
And joining us now live on the ground in Brussels tonight is Greg Palkot.  Greg, what's going on? I know you've been reporting all day.
GREG PALKOT, FOX NEWS CORRESPONDENT: Sean, it's just after 3:00 in the morning here. The airport behind us -- that's the Brussels airport. That was the scene of the carnage and terror earlier in the day. It is shut down. We have seen troops going in there. It is under heavy military guard. We are told it will be shut down again tomorrow because of the investigation going on throughout the terminal and throughout the airport.
Just about, oh, three miles away was the subway station that was hit. That is under heavy guard, as well. And in between, an area called Schaerbeek (ph). This is the new area of attention. That is where it is believed the bomb factory was that created all of the explosives that went up on Tuesday. That is where the raids happened tonight by police. Just about the past hour, those raids have stopped. There's where the bombs created.
It's now believed that it probably wasn't suicide vests that were blown up.  It was suitcases filled with the explosives, filled with the nails. Two of them blew up. A third did not. The person involved with the third -- he is the main fugitive on the run. There's at least one or two other fugitives coming from the subway station.
A lot of people are asking now how did police here, how did the investigators let this happen? They called it blind attacks. Basically, they didn't know about it. And yes, related to Salah Abdeslam? Probably.  Over the weekend, prosecutors were saying that he was talking. And he was saying, number one, that he was creating a new network. Number two, there was going to be more terror. Maybe we're seeing it today. Back to you, Sean.
HANNITY: All right, Greg, thank you.
Now, authorities at this hour -- they're working to determine who exactly carried out the Brussels terror attacks and who else may be involved.  Catherine Herridge is live in our Washington bureau with the very latest.
Catherine, I guess the first place they got to look is with the person they arrested Friday, the mastermind of the Paris attack, and what information he has about other cells that might be either in Brussels or all throughout Europe.
CATHERINE HERRIDGE, FOX NEWS CORRESPONDENT: Well, that's right, Sean. Good evening. An intelligence source with firsthand knowledge of the investigation on the ground in Brussels tells Fox News tonight new details about how the suicide bombers tried to kill as many innocent civilians as possible.
The source said shortly after the three men entered the ticketing hall at the airport, the two bombers apparently split up. There were two explosions, one in aisle 3 of the ticketing hall, the other in aisle 11.  The bombers appeared to target the highest concentration of passengers, rather than a specific airline. Despite early media reports, American Airlines was not in either location.
We were first to draw your attention here at Fox to the two men believed to be the suicide bombers, wearing a single black leather glove. And tonight, a U.S. government official confirms investigators also believe the detail is significant and they're telling Congress about it.
There are two scenarios. The single black glove holding the luggage cart handle was described to Fox News as evidence of a possible detonator, known as a dead man switch. When the grip on the handle is broken, the bomb is triggered. These switches are almost always used as a backup. If the suicide bomber is shot by the cops, the bomb will still explode.
The second scenario is pulled from an al Qaeda manual for suicide bombers that advises leather gloves should be worn to reduce the likelihood of a static charge that could prematurely detonate the device.
And if we take a look -- closer look at the guy there on the right -- the video isn't great quality, but he appears to be wearing a disguise. The coloring between his face and nose also appear uneven. And he was described to Fox News as a kind of minder to keep the bombers on track and to get them to their target.
Tonight, the chairman of the House Homeland Security Committee telling Bret Baier on "Special Report" that the evidence does suggest a direct connection between November's attack in Paris and the strike in Brussels today.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: We suspect that the same bomb maker responsible for the Paris attacks was involved in this attack. This plot, the level of sophistication -- obviously, it's been planned for months.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
HERRIDGE: A counterterrorism source told Fox News today that the leading working theory of investigators is that this plot was in the pipeline, but it was accelerated after the arrest on Friday of the Paris suspect Salah Abdeslam because they feared that their identities would be revealed by the master bomb maker -- Sean.
HANNITY: All right, Catherine Herridge, thank you.
And coming up -- the polls in Arizona closed just minutes ago. We are awaiting the election results. They come in at any moment. We'll bring them to you live.
Plus tonight...
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
DONALD TRUMP, R-PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: You go to Brussels. I was in Brussels a long time ago, 20 years ago. So beautiful. Everything's so beautiful. It's like living in a hellhole right now!
(END VIDEO CLIP)
HANNITY: Donald Trump. He said that back in January, that something would happen in Brussels. The 2016 Republican front-runner joins us to talk about it.
And then later tonight -- well, President Obama spent less than one minute talking about the terror attacks today. While Europe was literally dealing with radical Islamists, well, the president -- he decided to go to a baseball game in Cuba after he was lectured by the communist dictators and murderers, and he did the wave together. Isn't that cute? We have the video to prove it. Former New York City mayor Rudy Giuliani is here live tonight with reaction on this busy news night.
Stay with us.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
TRUMP: There's something going on, Maria. Go to Brussels, go to Paris, go to different places. There's something going on, and it's not good, where they want sharia law, where they want this, where they want things that -- you know, there has to be some assimilation. There is no assimilation. There's something bad going on, and until we find out what it is so we can correct it -- you go to Brussels. I was in Brussels a long time ago, 20 years ago. So beautiful.  Everything is so -- it's like living in a hellhole right now!
(END VIDEO CLIP)
HANNITY: Wow. That was an eerie prediction by 2016 Republican presidential candidate and front-runner Donald Trump back in January. Mr. Trump now joins us on the phone. I'm sure you wish you were wrong, Mr. Trump, but you were right. What did you see that maybe others didn't see about what was happening in Brussels and Belgium?
TRUMP (via telephone): Well, it's what I'm hearing. And you have radical Islamic terrorists all over the place. It's not going to be the end. And it seems to be a breeding ground.
But you know, you have other places over in Europe that it's the same thing, and we're going to have it over here, too, because we're allowing thousands of people to come here, Sean. And we have no paperwork. We have no idea who they are, where they are, where they come from. They come in through the migration, the so-called migration, which could be the great Trojan horse of all time.
And we have absolutely no idea what we're doing in this country. We're sending them all over the country, and it's a serious problem.
HANNITY: Well, I can give you the exact numbers. In the last five years, the United States has issued 680,000 green cards to migrants from Muslim nations over the last five years. Now, I know you came under fire for saying we ought to have a temporary ban. OK. But here's what the national director of intelligence, James Clapper, James Comey, the FBI director, Obama's special envoy to defeat ISIS, General John Allen have all said, like in Paris, ISIS and other terror groups will infiltrate the refugee population.
To me, it seems the president, Hillary Clinton and Bernie Sanders are willing to gamble with the lives of Americans. What do you want to tell the American people tonight about why that is so important?
TRUMP: Well, I think -- I think I really have to tell them, and you know, you could say I came under fire, but I've also been praised by many people.
HANNITY: Well, that's true.
TRUMP: Many, many people. Many, many people agree with me.
HANNITY: I agree with you. I'm just saying that, you know, you come under fire for it. But yet, you were right in January. And we see the terrorists happening here and we're being warned by our intelligence community, and our president won't listen.
TRUMP: Yes. Well, we better get tough and we better get smart and we better get vigilant because if we're not vigilant to start off with, we better -- we're going to be in big trouble in this country.
And I'll tell you what. You look at parts of Sweden. I don't know if you heard what's going on in Sweden, where they have one little section where it's all been radicalized. It's just crazy. And they're having tremendous problems. And you look at Germany and look at the areas where these people are settling in.
I'll tell you what. It is a very, very disturbing thing that's going on in Europe. And we're going to have it over here, too. And they just can't do what they're doing. I hope this election takes place fast. I hope I win.  And believe me, they're going back. We're not going to keep them here.  They're going back.
HANNITY: Mr. Trump, let me -- let me ask you this. Today's attack seems to be retaliation for the arrest of the Paris mastermind, where over 130 people were killed, which happened on Friday, which means there were terror cells...
TRUMP: I wouldn't call him a mastermind. He's a lowlife. I wouldn't call him a mastermind.
HANNITY: An evil thug, murdering, killing. We can use any term you want.
(CROSSTALK)
TRUMP: ... the term mastermind.
HANNITY: I agree. Now, you said that if he was here in the United States -- now, I would suspect that he knows where other terror cells are throughout Europe and in Brussels and in Belgium. And you said that -- and I agree with you -- that we should use advanced terror enhancement interrogation techniques on him. Hillary...
TRUMP: Beyond waterboarding. Beyond waterboarding.
HANNITY: Explain.
TRUMP: So you catch the guy last week, and it looks like retaliation for his capture that, you know, these bombings that took place today. Would have been three, except I guess the one bomb -- either he didn't do it or something happened. The bomb didn't work. But it would have been three.  Even more people would have been killed. And these are people that were so badly hurt. These are people for the rest of their lives are destroyed, if they live.
So what happened is you catch the guy last week. And they probably have lawyers all over the place. He's probably got lawyers, you know, saying, you know, You're going to go to trial in about seven years. And nothing happens and then you have the big bombings today.
If they would have put him through the grill, 10 minutes after they captured him, he probably would have ratted them out and maybe stopped this horrible terror attack that took place today. He knew about it. It was about him, most likely. He knew about this happening. In fact, they say he was going to do something himself. Probably, he was involved with this one.
HANNITY: I would agree. He probably knows where other terrorist cells are. Let -- let me...
TRUMP: And he knows the people that are behind it.
HANNITY: Of course he does.
TRUMP: And he's never going to -- he's never going to talk. And we're not fighting on the same plane, Sean. The problem is we don't fight on the same level. We have laws that protect everybody. You know, you can't do this, you can't do that. Don't touch him. Don't hurt him. Please -- in the meantime, they go around killing people. They have no laws. We have the laws to protect them. It's absolutely crazy!
HANNITY: It's insane. Let me give you Hillary Clinton's response, she responding to you and your call for enhanced interrogation techniques and the fact that we'd have a temporary ban. She actually said that the following. "We can be strong and smart without advocating torture or bigotry and will not let fear dictate our foreign policy."
And then she said this about enhanced interrogation on the "Today" show in response to you.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
HILLARY CLINTON, D-PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: Our country's most experienced and bravest military leaders will tell you that torture is not effective. It does put our own soldiers and increasingly our own civilians at risk. But we do have to give law enforcement and intelligence professionals all the tools they need to do the job to keep America safe. And they don't need to resort to torture, but they are going to need more help.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
HANNITY: And then, Mr. Trump, she said that the borders must be kept open in the wake of what happened in Brussels! This is obviously going to be a very -- it's going to be what we call a choice election, two very distinct visions on how to deal with terror.
Your reaction to her opposition to what you're advocating.
TRUMP: Incompetent Hillary doesn't know what he's talking about. She doesn't have a clue. She's made such bad decisions. You look at Syria.  You look at -- you look at anything -- everything that she's been involved with has been horrible in the Middle East and elsewhere.
I mean, she only did one thing, and that was travel a lot. The woman has been a disaster in every decision she's had to make, especially in the Middle East. And a lot of the migration, a lot of the problems, a lot of all of this that's going on right now had to do with her and our president.
So she's so wrong on that. And if you would have taken this guy that was captured last week and put him through the wringer, you probably could have stopped or at least possibly could have stopped a horrible tragedy that took place today.
HANNITY: And they won't even put him through the wringer now. There is this mysterious reluctance and resistance by the president, by Hillary Clinton, by Bernie Sanders to even use the term "radical Islam."
Secondly, they are pushing, even still, Bernie Sanders and Hillary Clinton, to bring more refugees into the country in spite of what General John Allen, the FBI director, James Comey, and the director of national intelligence, James Clapper, have said.
Let me play their remarks about both those issues to you and get your response to that.
TRUMP: OK.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
CLINTON: I don't think we're at war with Islam. I don't think we're at war with all Muslims. I think we're at war with jihadists who have...
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Just to interrupt...
CLINTON: Yes?
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: He didn't say all Muslims. He just said radical Islam.  Is that a phrase you don't...
CLINTON: I think that you can -- you can talk about Islamists who clearly are also jihadists...
SEN. BERNIE SANDERS, I-VT., PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: I don't think the term is what's important. What is important to understand is we have organizations, whether it is ISIS or al Qaeda, who do believe we should go back several thousand years.
What the magic number is, I don't know because we don't know the extent of the problem. But I certainly think that the United States should take its full responsibility and helping...
CLINTON: I also said that we should take increased numbers of refugees.  The administration originally said 10. I said we should go to 65, but only if we have as carefully screening and vetting process as we can imagine.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
HANNITY: Mr. Trump, when they take in these refugees, we can't possibly ascertain if -- if, as our intelligence community is warning, whether or not they have sympathies for ISIS. So both of them seem willing to gamble with the lives of the American people. And why this reluctance and resistance to say the words "radical Islamic terrorism"?
TRUMP: Well, in the case of incompetent Hillary, you have one reason.  She's petrified of the president because he's got her life in his hands.  And that's all it is. She can't believe this. She just can't believe it.  And he doesn't say it. Maybe he's got his own reasons for that. You'll have to ask him why he wouldn't say it.
But I mean, how they -- how they don't -- how they're unwilling to even mention a term, when all over the world this is happening, and it's going to start happening more and more here because we're allowing so many in, is just incredible.
And frankly, she just wants to go along with anything he does, anything he says. They won't mention the term. They won't mention the words.
Now, he's got his own reasons for it. And I guess some people feel they know they know what the reason is. But who knows? Whatever the reason is, she doesn't want to do anything that's going to violate his confidence in her because she's afraid of something that you understand, Sean, and I understand.
HANNITY: Yes.
TRUMP: Because I can't believe she really believes that herself. She's just going along with his line because she doesn't want to do anything to disturb him.
HANNITY: Let me ask you about the president's response. The president yesterday was lectured by a murdering communist dictator in Cuba, Raul Castro, on how America needs to improve. He started out his presidency with an apology tour, and I guess he's finishing with one.
And then beyond the lecture, he spent 51 seconds total today dealing with the issue of what happened in this terror attack in Belgium, and then he went to a baseball game in Cuba! We'll put it up on the screen. And there's the president of the United States doing the wave with communist dictators.
What is your reaction to that? I know what mine is.
TRUMP: Well, it certainly looks terrible. I mean, I actually said before -- a little bit before this, I said, you know, he should be back in the White House. He should be back in Washington. We're at a, you know, very serious time. It's a horrible thing. Another horrible tragedy happened.  We're not tough. We're not smart. We're weak, actually. We're weak, and we look weak. And then we're not allowed to get the information.
And what I'm saying is -- I really mean that. If we were strong and tough and really tough, you would have had this information possibly before the second attack took place or before this attack today took place.
But when I see him sitting at a baseball game, watching a baseball game, when I see him landing in Air Force One and there's essentially nobody there to greet him, that is probably is the first time in the history of Air Force One -- that's been a long history -- that when it lands at a country, nobody is there in terms of the leaders to meet him, to meet the president.
HANNITY: You know...
TRUMP: So it's a pretty sad situation.
HANNITY: Pretty sad.
TRUMP: Putting it mildly.
HANNITY: Pretty said that a president is friends with all the wrong people -- $150 billion to the mullahs in Iran while they're burning our flag and chanting "Death to America," burning Israel's flag and saying the destruction of Israel' is non-negotiable, $150 billion there, then Muhammad Morsi, when he was in power in Egypt, a guy that referred to the Israelis as descendants of apes and pigs -- well, he got a billion dollars from Obama. He got F-16s. He got tanks from Obama. And now the murdering dictator Castro brothers -- they're receiving the same treatment.
It is -- it's inexplicable to me, sir, that he's friends with all the wrong people. Final comment.
TRUMP: Well, the president now is going to make a further tour, and I think he should head back to Washington and he should solve a problem. And you better get rid of ISIS quick because it's only going to get worse.  It's going to get a lot worse. And you know, a lot of people gave me credit for the prediction on -- on -- when you look at Brussels...
HANNITY: Well, I wish you were wrong.
TRUMP: Well, I wish I was wrong, too, but I could see it happening and I could see it and friends of mine that go over there that come back and they tell me what's going on and it was so obvious. So it was sort of easy.  But you're right. I wish I was wrong.
HANNITY: You know, Benjamin Netanyahu said to me in the last interview when I was in Israel with him that what was going on in his country -- it was during the war that August -- he said, This is a preview of coming attractions, coming to a theater near you. Sadly, I wish he was wrong, too. Thank you, Mr. Trump.
TRUMP: Thank you very much.
HANNITY: Coming up, we have more reaction to the deadly terrorist attack in Brussels and the president's offensive response. Former New York City mayor Rudy Giuliani is next.
Plus, we are awaiting results tonight from key races coming out of Arizona and Utah. We'll bring them to you at any moment as we continue on this busy news night on "Hannity."
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
HANNITY: Welcome back to "Hannity." Europe is on edge tonight after a deadly terrorist attack that rocked the city of Brussels. Earlier today, during a speech in, yes, Havana, Cuba, the president had a chance to make a bold statement condemning the bombings. He only spent 51 seconds talking about that topic.
After the speech, with the death toll number rising and the number of injured rising, instead of returning to Washington, well, the president decided to hang out with his communist dictator murdering friends, people like Raul Castro, and he found it appropriate to do the wave. While Europe is under attack by Muslim extremist, there's your president busy, thinking that's appropriate.
Joining us with reaction, former New York City mayor Rudy Giuliani. I don't even know what to say to that. Honestly, it is a national embarrassment and disgrace. But I'll get your thoughts.
RUDY GIULIANI, R-FMR. NEW YORK CITY MAYOR: Well, it absolutely is a disgrace. The reality is, the president of the United States, the minute that happened, should have returned to Washington on Air Force One, gone into the Situation Room and said to every one of his national security advisers, Give me a plan by tomorrow morning how we wipe out ISIS...
HANNITY: He doesn't have it in him.
GIULIANI: ... how we wipe them out.
HANNITY: I asked Donald Trump this. How is he friends with all the wrong people, makes deals with the Iranian mullahs, makes deals with Muhammad Morsi?
GIULIANI: And I also believe that his weakness, his 12 lines in the sand with Saudi Arabia, and backing off. And then his willingness to --
HANNITY: And Syria, right?
GIULIANI: His willingness to negotiate with a mass murder, the ayatollah, these are the things that make them bolder. And we've been attacked in the United States, San Bernardino, Fort Hood.
HANNITY: Wait a minute. That was workplace violence. You have to get that right.
GIULIANI: Workplace violence. This is absurd. They take advantage of the weakness.
HANNITY: The two biggest issues that worry me is the president, even though James Clapper, you know James Comey, you know General John Allen, all warning ISIS will infiltrate the refugee population. He's insisting, insisting on putting Americans' lives in jeopardy and taking a chance with Americans' lives.
GIULIANI: That is completely irrational, 100 percent irrational. We should not let anybody who has any possible, even arguable connection to them into the United States. But more importantly than that, we should have a plan to wipe them out.
HANNITY: We don't.
GIULIANI: We should wipe ISIS off the face of the earth.
HANNITY: Let me bring politics into this, because I agree with what Donald Trump said. If I had access to the so-called mastermind -- he's right, he's an evil guy. We had the guy -- this was in retaliation to his arrest last Friday. So there are obviously cells all throughout Europe, and he has the information about where these people are. Hillary's saying, no, we can't interrogate him. We can't use enhanced interrogation. So people may die because we're too weak to interrogate him the right way. And this reluctance and resistance to even say "radical Islamic terrorism," it's not funny anymore. Women and children and people are dying. Nearly 100 attacks worldwide since Obama has been president.
GIULIANI: Innocent people slaughtered in a NATO ally Belgium that we have an obligation under our treaty to defend.
HANNITY: Does this become a pivotal moment in this campaign?
GIULIANI: When I ran for president in 2008, I was asked a question, if there was an attack like this, what would I do? And I said, what I would do is I would call in the head of the CIA and I'd have 10 pardons on my desk. And I would say, in four hours you get me the information. I don't care what you have to do.
HANNITY: And then you'll pardon them.
GIULIANI: And I'll pardon them. You just get me the information and I will save innocent lives. I'm sorry. I will not let a terrorist murderer hold this information and not save innocent lives.
HANNITY: You know, those that disagree with you, me, and Mr. Trump, I ask them this. I ask this question. OK, let's say three guys come into your house and kidnap two children. And two of the guys get away in a van with your kids and you tackle the third one. Is there anything I'm not going to do --
GIULIANI: Absolutely nothing.
HANNITY: -- to get information about where my kids are? Nothing. I will break every law.
GIULIANI: Absolutely. And when you put your hand down on the Bible and you swear to protect the people in the United States, that's what you swear to do for all the people in the United States, not just your children.
HANNITY: Is this going to be a pivotal moment in this campaign?
GIULIANI: I believe it is. We need a president who can protect us and our allies. Belgium is an ally of the United States. France is an ally of the United States. We are offering them no leadership. The president of France, a socialist --
HANNITY: Is stronger than our president.
GIULIANI: -- talked about the war that the Islamic radicals are posing against us, and our president is weaker than the president of France. I am embarrassed as an American.
HANNITY: I share your embarrassment. Mr. Mayor, thanks. Appreciate it.  Thoughts and prayers also go to those families.
GIULIANI: Absolutely.
HANNITY: Coming up, polls are closed in Arizona. We're awaiting the election results. We're going to check in with Bill Hemmer on the Hemmer board, "Hannity" big board, on the 2016 delegate count and how tonight's races will impact those numbers as we continue on this busy news night.  Stay with us.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
HANNITY: Welcome back to "Hannity." The polls are now officially closed in Arizona. We are awaiting the election results. Standing by at the Hemmer big board, it's his tonight --
BILL HEMMER, FOX NEWS ANCHOR: The Billboard if you want. It's easier.
HANNITY: The Hemmer board, the "Hannity" big board. All right, we share it because we're friends. Tonight's races could impact all those numbers.  Our friend Bill Hemmer. Bill, what do you have tonight?
HEMMER: You know, we're looking at the American west, Sean. We're going to fill in this map throughout the night here as you know. Arizona, no results just in just yet, but immigration is a big story. Reports of a big turnouts in Arizona. They could easily surpass the record. The Maricopa County, Phoenix, this is Tucson down here around the Mexican border.  That's Arizona historically. Romney won it easily four years ago. McCain, his home state, four years prior to that.
In Utah tonight we'll see which way this goes. By the way, Arizona is winner take all so it's the biggest pot of the night, unless you get over 50 percent here in Utah. Here is Salt Lake City and Salt Lake County, a lot of votes there, and also down here in Provo which is Utah County.
We have seen based on some of the -- what was it? February 23rd, Sean, Nevada, that was a night where Hillary Clinton beat Bernie Sanders by five points in Nevada, and then Donald Trump pulled the trick on Ted Cruz and doubled him up. So we have a measure of a western state in Nevada. And then two weeks ago in Idaho Ted Cruz turned a trick on Donald Trump and easily won out there 45 to 29 percent. So we have the sense of what's shaping up out here, but no results just yet.
HANNITY: Bill, real quick, because we have -- it's winner take all in Arizona. That's a primary, 58 delegates available. Utah, you mentioned 50 plus one, Trump in the polls was leading in Arizona. Cruz was leading in Utah. But you'd have to get 50 plus one to get the 40 delegates out of Utah. Correct?
HEMMER: Yes. And if you're looking at the big number, Sean, 1,237, if you can get to that number. Trump can, Cruz can. It's a lot harder for Cruz.  Kasich cannot. He'd have to have a convention battle.
Here's your upcoming calendar. In two weeks you've got, Wisconsin.  Wisconsin is very important, big Midwest industrial state, 42 delegates there in Wisconsin. Two weeks after that, you come to New York. New York, if you're plus 50 percent, that's winner take all and that's a big pot, Sean. That is 95 if you get there.
And then you've got to go into the month of May if you don't have a decider, and then you go June and you've got California. That is Congressional delegations, but look at that, 172. You hear Ted Cruz talk about California a lot. They believe inside that campaign they have got a shot.
The polling suggests that Trump leads there by at least 10 points. On that same day New Jersey is winner take all at 51 delegates. In summary, I think the easiest way to understand it, based on what we know today, Sean, Trump needs 55 percent to 57 percent of the remaining delegates to get to the magic number before Cleveland. Cruz needs 81 percent of the remaining delegates on the board. So off with we go, Sean.
HANNITY: Bill Hemmer, we'll be watching all night. Thank you, sir.  Joining us now with reaction, FOX News contributor Herman Cain, conservative columnist A.J. Delgado, and FOX News legal analyst Peter Johnson Jr. Herman, let me begin with you. To what extent do the comments of Hillary and Trump and Cruz today impact the race going forward?
HERMAN CAIN, FORMER PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: Today it would be marginal, but going forward I think what happened today, unfortunately, in Brussels, is going to help Donald Trump, because he has clearly been the clearest on what we need to do in terms of defeating ISIS. So going forward I think it's going to be a game changer.
And here's the thing. Bill just mentioned that Trump needs 55 percent of the delegates going forward to clinch it. Well, I think what happened today and his statements and Hillary still being soft on this whole radical Islamic terrorist threat, I think that's going to hurt her and it's going to help Donald Trump.
HANNITY: Yes. A.J., your thoughts?
A.J. DELGADO, FOX NEWS LEGAL ANALYST: He's absolutely right. Listen, I think voters are going to realize going forward and so we're going to see Trump have higher numbers than he's currently forecasted as having in the upcoming primaries because of what happened in Belgium. When you look at it, immigration is a national security issue and there's no one better on immigration than Donald Trump. You even have the temporary ban that everybody said was so crazy. Now some of those very people are saying, you know what, maybe it is a good idea, and there has been no one on national security and terrorism that has been more astute in his predictions whether it was predicting that Usama bin Laden was going to hit the U.S. or whether it was predicting that something dire was going on in Belgium and then look what happened today.
And then thirdly, you're only other option besides Trump is Ted Cruz. No offense to Ted Cruz. I like him, but that's somebody who on this network two years ago said that we should absolutely let in Syrian refugees. So I think if you look at Belgium and think whose my candidate, there's no question if you want to avoid a Belgium situation in the U.S., you got to go with Trump, and a lot of voters are realizing that today.
HANNITY: Peter Johnson Jr., A CBS poll, "The New York Times" poll had Donald Trump at 46 percent. New York state winner take all, if you're over 50 percent, obviously that's a state Trump would probably get. New Jersey I got to assume leans him. California, he's up in the polls. Do you see the path for Cruz or is it more for Trump?
PETER JOHNSON JR., FOX NEWS LEGAL ANALYST: I don't see a path at this point for Ted Cruz. Maybe in a convention if the Republican elites decide to take it away from Donald Trump, who is leading at that point. But I also agree with what you're saying and what our colleagues are saying here today, Sean. Safety and security and stability are really on the minds of Americans. And Trump's emotional, visceral, gut response today to the horrible attacks are going to strike a chord with a lot of Americans who want to be safe in their homes, who want to be secure, and who want a leader who represents the best of American values and principles and who reacts the way that a lot of Americans do when people are killed.
HANNITY: It's pretty scary what we have heard. We're just short on time.  We went long on Mr. Trump. Thank you for being with us, appreciate it.  A.J., Herman Cain, PJJ.
Coming up, Tucker Carlson, Monica Crowley, they'll weigh in on the 2016 race. That and more as this busy news night continues tonight here on "Hannity."
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
HANNITY: Welcome back to "Hannity." And we are awaiting results from Arizona and Utah. Now the Democratic caucuses are now over. The Republican caucus in that state is still underway. We'll have results as we get them. Joining us now with reaction to the state of the 2016 race, Fox News contributors Tucker Carlson and Monica Crowley. Do you remember the revolving door commercial of Michael Dukakis? Do you remember that?  It was a key moment. And then people said it was about Willy Horton and race. Putting that aside, the fact that he allowed weekend furloughs for murderers killed his campaign, ended it right there and then. Do you get the sense that maybe what happened in Brussels and the differing reactions, Hillary, Bernie versus Trump, Cruz, this is going to be a pivotal moment in this campaign?
TUCKER CARLSON, FOX NEWS CONTRIBUTOR: There is no question. It's been pivotal to this point. The Paris attacks were pivotal to Trump, because whatever you think about the details of his proposals, whether you think they go too far, or not detailed enough, the bottom line is --
HANNITY: Don't you agree with them? I want enhanced interrogation.
CARLSON: Look, I want my president, and I think most people do, to care first and foremost about the prosperity and safety of the country he leads, period.
HANNITY: You didn't see the wave of the president.
CARLSON: I think I'm too old, but I looked at that and I said this world is upside down. I cannot believe the president of the United States had a picture taken of Che. What?
HANNITY: Che and Raul Castro.
MONICA CROWLEY, FOX NEWS CONTRIBUTOR: The widespread support for Donald Trump is a direct reaction to what we saw in Cuba today. You have the 98- pound weakling who has been a weak president now for seven years going on eight.
HANNITY: Did you see this?
CROWLEY: He's sitting there with reds in Cuba, OK, the Castros. And whether or not you agree with Donald Trump or not, what he is selling is strength. And the American people want to --
HANNITY: Monica, I agree with enhanced interrogation. The Paris, quote, "mastermind," evil mastermind, water board him and get the answers.
CROWLEY: And the reality, Sean, is the American people understand the nature of the threat. They get it.
HANNITY: Do you agree that until we can vet people from Muslim countries we have a temporary ban?  
CROWLEY: We have a temporary ban, yes.
HANNITY: I do.  
CARLSON: If we're getting to the point where we're relying on law enforcement and intelligence to protect us, it's too late. That's what you're seeing in Europe now.
HANNITY: I'm just quoting Clapper, Comey, and Allen.
CARLSON: But if even gets to -- why let people, large numbers who might pose a threat to us move here? Every person who comes should have to demonstrate how that person is going to make America better, period.
HANNITY: There is a huge cultural divide. You grow up under Sharia and you think you have the right to tell women how to dress, whether they can go to work or schools, whether they can drive a car.
CARLSON: Why are feminists defending this, by the way?
HANNITY: I'm the one defending it, conservatives defend it. But if you grow up that way, it is fair to assume, to ask whether you want to bring those values with you or do you want the breath of freedom?
CROWLEY: Of course it's common sense. Donald Trump, Ted Cruz, they're common sense candidates here. Again, the American people understand the nature of the threat. They see what's happening in western Europe.  Western Europe is essentially gone. There has been the Islamization of the entire continent. They realize the window to save the country before that happens here is slamming shut pretty fast.
HANNITY: And 680,000 green cards to people from Muslim countries in last five years.
CARLSON: And guess who never has to deal with the consequences? The people who make those policies. They have no skin in the game. They are totally insulated from the results of the decisions they make. They get to feel virtuous and they get more voters, and that's all they care about.
HANNITY: Obama ignores his intelligence officials, Comey, Clapper, General John Allen. Is he gambling with the lives of the American people.
CARLSON: Obviously his policy doesn't make us safer, obviously.
HANNITY: Yes or no. We've got to go.
CROWLEY: Yes. And that's why you see the pendulum swinging to the conservative side, Donald Trump, Ted Cruz.
HANNITY: All right, thank you both.
Coming up, we have more "Hannity" right after the break.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
HANNITY: All right, unfortunately that is all the time we have left this evening. As always, thank you for being with us.
Now, we have a quick programming note. Be sure to tune in tomorrow night, 10:00 eastern, Newt Gingrich, Laura Ingraham, RNC Chairman Reince Priebus, Jorge Ramos and I will battle over immigration, illegal immigration, and the issue of taking in Syrian refugees. That's all happening tomorrow night, 10:00 eastern.
Stay with the Fox News Channel for continuing coverage of tonight's election results. Bret Baier, Martha MacCallum, they are standing by.  America's Election Headquarters starts right here, right now. We'll see you tomorrow night.  Content and Programming Copyright 2016 Fox News Network, LLC. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. Copyright 2016 CQ-Roll Call, Inc. All materials herein are protected by United States copyright law and may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, displayed, published or broadcast without the prior written permission of CQ-Roll Call. You may not alter or remove any trademark, copyright or other notice from copies of the content.

