‘The line went dead’ Siblings from NY missing in Brussels attacks
New York siblings Sascha and Alexander Pinczowski called their family from the Brussels airport Tuesday morning to let them know they had arrived safely for their trip home.
Suddenly there was a loud explosion and the line went dead — and their worried relatives have not heard from them since.
“We are looking for Alexander Pinczowski and his sister Sascha. They are missing in the Brussels airport attack. Please contact if you have seen them or know about their whereabouts. Please share!!!” a friend wrote in a Facebook posting.
Another post on the site said the mother of the siblings — who acquaintances said hailed from Greece — was anxiously awaiting word.
“Their mother is worried sick since she can’t get hold of them since this morning when they were checking in at Zaventem airport,” wrote Mafalda De Andrade Vasconcelos. “If you have friends that work in hospitals or emergency centres, please share with them.”
Sascha — a Manhattan resident who graduated from Marymount Manhattan College and speaks five languages, according to her LinkedIn page — and her brother have a father who works in Maastricht in the Netherlands.
Sascha recently worked as a production intern at the Chelsea production and design company Shiraz Events.
“She was an awesome chick,” said Florecia Sadler, a producer at the company. She said Sascha was born in Greece and raised near Belgium in Holland.
Sadler said Sascha’s résumé says she has a degree in business administration from Vesalius College in Brussels and a hospitality management degree from Hotelschool Den Haag in the Netherlands.
She had told her boss she was en route to Greece to deal with an immigration issue.
“She was definitely a problem-solver,” Sadler said. “She liked to have a good time — and had a lot of friends . . . She was very determined and fun. She was a pleasure to have around.”
Alexander’s girlfriend, meanwhile, pleaded for help on social media.
“Please help find my boyfriend and his sister,” the woman, Cameron Cain, tweeted. “They were in the departure hall at time. Please help.”
At least nine other Americans were reported injured in the blasts, sources told The Post.
They include an Air Force lieutenant colonel along with his family, including four children and another adult, and three Mormon missionaries from Utah.
The missionaries were identified as Richard Norby, 66, Joseph Empey, 20, and Mason Wells, 19.
Wells had been a block from the finish line of the Boston Marathon when terrorists bombed it in 2013 and in France at the same time as the attacks there last year, his father told ABC News.
Amid the ensuing chaos, passengers ran screaming for cover.
“It was a horror. I saw at least seven people dead. There was blood. People had lost legs. You could see their bodies but no legs,’’ said airport security worker Alphonse Youla.
Additional reporting by Joe ­Tacopino, Jamie Schram and Sophia Rosenbaum
