As Siblings Again Unite to Unleash Terror, Experts Ask What Drives Them
The identification of Khalid and Ibrahim el-Bakraoui as suicide bombers in the deadly Brussels attacks is confronting investigators and counterterrorism experts with a disturbingly recurrent question: Why do so many terrorists turn out to be brothers?
The Bakraouis join a list of brothers involved in recent terror attacks — nearly every major attack on Western soil has involved siblings, with three sets of Saudi brothers among the 19 hijackers who carried out the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks. Before then, the grim roster included 19th-century French anarchists, militants in Southeast Asia and the Jewish extremists who assassinated Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin of Israel in 1995.
For terror groups, brothers can be ideal recruits. They radicalize each other while reinforcing a sense of purpose and ideological calling. They keep watch on each other to ensure an attack is carried out. One new study suggests that up to 30 percent of members of terrorist groups share family ties.
Siblings also present a formidable challenge for law enforcement. They often live in the same house. They can communicate easily, without using cellphones that are vulnerable to surveillance. And the glue of family can often — though not always — serve as insurance against one member of a cell betraying the mission to the authorities.
“Brothers would likely be exposed to similar radical messages, and they might well debate and brainstorm together about them,” said Audrey Kurth Cronin, an author and scholar at George Mason University. “And if you can rely on a family member in your plotting, it’s probably less likely that they’ll go to the police. It’s a question of security and trust.”
That the Brussels bombings were carried out by brothers is particularly striking because they appear to be connected with the Nov. 13 terror assault on Paris that killed 130 people. The Bakraouis are suspected of belonging to the same terror cell as Salah Abdeslam, who was arrested last week in Brussels and is considered the only surviving participant in the Paris assault. Mr. Abdeslam’s brother, Ibrahim, detonated a suicide belt at a cafe during the Paris rampage.
