Sweep Leads to 5 Arrests, a Foiled Plot and a Paris-Brussels Connection
BRUSSELS —  Counterterrorism officials widened a sweep targeting suspected Islamic State operatives to several European countries on Friday, reporting newly uncovered links between the Brussels and Paris massacres, at least five arrests and the foiling of what France described as an advanced plan for another attack.
The actions reflected both new momentum from information uncovered since the Brussels bombings on Tuesday and deep worries about missed opportunities to thwart the attacks. European officials, particularly in Belgium, have come under strong criticism for lapses that might have enabled the Brussels plotters to succeed.
President François Hollande of France, who has declared a state of war with the Islamic State, praised the police work carried out in recent days but said that “we know that there are other networks” affiliated with the extremist organization and lurking in Europe.
“Even if the one that carried out the attacks in Paris and in Brussels is in the process of being wiped out — with a certain number of its members arrested — there is always a threat weighing upon us,” Mr. Hollande said in Paris.
His warnings were reinforced by a newly released Islamic State propaganda video featuring what were described as two fighters from Belgium, apparently speaking from Iraqi territory seized by the organization and celebrating the Brussels attacks. “This is just the beginning of your nightmare,” one fighter proclaims, according to a translation by the SITE Intelligence Group, which tracks extremist organizations.
While European investigators already had established numerous links between suspects in the Paris and Brussels attacks, the Belgian prosecutor’s office confirmed the most direct connection on Friday. It said DNA matches showed that one of the bombers who blew himself up at Brussels Airport had been a bomb maker who helped produce two suicide vests used in the November Paris attacks, which killed 130 people.
