Security tightened in NYC after Brussels terror attacks
The NYPD ramped up security around New York City following the trio of deadly explosions ripped through a Brussels airport and a subway station that killed at least 34 people and wounded 180 in coordinated terrorist attacks.
The newly-formed Critical Response Group and the Strategic Response Group were deployed in full force at major transit hubs around the city, doubling the amount of police for the morning rush-hour as officials continued to monitor the terror situation in Brussels.
“There is no specific and credible threat against New York City at this time, but we are at a high state of vigilance and readiness,” Mayor de Blasio said at a press briefing with high-ranking NYPD and FBI officials.
Calling the attacks on Beligum “horrific,” de Blasio said, “We stand in solidarity with the people of Belgium.”
The mayor added, “The community of nations has to stand together in moments like this this and reject the forces of terror…What the terrorists want for us is to change our ways. They want to see us in a panic and we refuse to be afraid.”
NYPD Deputy Commissioner of Intelligence John Miller said that around 3:30 a.m. notifications started to come in to the NYPD’s Counter Terrorism Bureau that there were attacks overseas, quickly putting the ball in motion to mobilize security.
Heavy weapons teams, special weapons teams and bomb-sniffing K9’s were immediately deployed around the Big Apple’s subways and the NYPD put numerous bag checks into place at subway entrance posts, Miller said.
“This isn’t something we started thinking about between 3 and 4 a.m.,” he said. “This is something we think about every minute of every day.”
Miller and NYPD Commissioner Bill Bratton took the opportunity the blast a proposed cut in federal anti-terror funding for New York – a top terror target.
“[It] seems to make no sense in this environment especially based on the idea that what we were able to marshal and deploy today outside of the personnel costs is largely things and entities and elements that are funded from those dollars,” said Miller. 
Bratton said that over the next several days New Yorkers will continue to see an increased police presence in major transit hubs and at highly populated locations including Times Square.

“This is a well-oiled machine – the NYPD,” he said. “It moves very quickly on these things.”
Diego Rodriguez of the FBI’s New York Field Office said that the FBI it will continue to work closely with law enforcement agencies through the joint terrorism task force.
“We remind the public not to let fear become disabling,” said Rodriguez. “If you see something please let us know so we can investigate it.”
Rodriguez added that it is not yet known if any of the Brussels attack victims were Americans.
Gov. Andrew Cuomo said law enforcement authorities will take added measures to protect airports, bridges, tunnels and mass transit systems.
“Public safety is paramount, and I want the people of this state to know that we are working with all local and federal partners, remaining vigilant and taking all necessary measures to keep New Yorkers safe,” Cuomo said in a statement.
Noting that there is no “known credible threat” to the state, the governor announced the following steps:
“The senseless attacks that struck the people of Belgium earlier today have left us all stunned and heartbroken. These were acts of pure evil that have claimed the lives of people who were doing nothing more than going about their days,” Cuomo said.
“My heart grieves for all those who have been impacted, and as we learn more about these attacks, New York will continue to stand shoulder to shoulder with the international community against terrorism – as the world has done for us in the past.”
