New Yorker missing in Brussels dating daughter of ex-US diplomat
The New York man who went missing along with his sister during the terror bombing at Brussels airport is dating the daughter of a former US ambassador, who said relatives are bracing for the worst.
“It’s been more than 24 hours now. And so we know that there’s a possibility the news, when it comes, may not be good,” James Cain, of Raleigh, Va., told ABC before flying to Belgium with his bereft daughter, Cameron.
Siblings Sascha and Alexander Pinczowski were in a ticket line to board Delta Flight 34 to JFK when the bombs exploded Tuesday morning.
They were still on the phone with their mom, Mariann, as the blasts ripped through the departure hall.
“Mariann said the phone sounded like it went under water, so that’s the last contact anyone had with Alex or Sascha,” said Cain, who served as the US ambassador to Denmark from September 2005 to January 2009.
Sascha had been bouncing between the Big Apple and Europe but was looking to move full-time to Manhattan, where she had attended college, to join her brother.
Cameron looked “very upset” as she left her Upper East Side apartment with her parents, who were crying, the building’s superintendent said.
Meanwhile, family members of an American couple who were at the airport during the blasts said the State Department mistakenly told them their loved ones had been located at a hospital — when, in fact, they are still missing.
Relatives of Justin and Stephanie Shults, who live in Brussels, haven’t heard from them since the attack. It happened just after the couple dropped off Stephanie’s mom, Carolyn Moore, at the airport.
Justin’s mom, Sheila Shell, told ABC6 the State Department told her the couple had been found in a hospital with undisclosed injuries — but she later received a call from a social worker in Belgium who said that information was wrong.
Officials told Justin’s brother, Levi Sutton, to take down a Twitter post in which he’d said his sibling had been located.
“Of course, I shared the news, and it got shared, and Levi is devastated,” Shell said. “He is just devastated because he shared the news, and he says it makes it look bad. I say, ‘Honey, you were just telling what they told you that they told me.’ ”
Sutton said on a Twitter account that has since been taken down that he was “disgusted” that he was given inaccurate information. “They asked me to remove any and all posts from social media,” he wrote.
Three of the more than 31 innocent people who died in the bombings have been identified thus far, including a Belgian man and a Peruvian woman.
The State Department said Wednesday that at least a dozen US citizens were injured in the attacks, but none has been confirmed dead thus far.
“We must emphasize that a number of US citizens remain unaccounted for, and the Kingdom of Belgium has not yet released nationality information for reported fatalities,” the department said in a statement.
As names of the dead trickled out, so did reports of the chaotic scene at the airport in the wake of the blasts.
One American doctor who was dropping her friend off at the airport sought shelter with her pal at a nearby police station, where she helped treat dozens of victims who poured in with shrapnel wounds.
“The first airport employee I saw — all her hair had been singed off on one side, she had shrapnel in her face and blood all down her shirt, and her pants were soaked in blood,” Dr. Laura Billiet told ABC News.
Additional reporting by Sophia Rosenbaum and Reuven Fenton
