Brussels hunting for second suspect in subway bombing
Belgian authorities are on the hunt for a second suspect who may have taken part in the attack on a subway train in Brussels where one of two brothers blew himself up, police officials said Thursday.
A man with a large bag had been seen next to bomber Khalid El Bakraoui on surveillance video at the Maalbeek station, where officials say about 20 people were killed in Tuesday’s attack, a source told AFP.
Another source said Bakraoui was seen talking to a man who did not get onto the train with him.
“Investigators want to know who this man is,” one source said.
Belgian state broadcaster RTBF said it was not clear whether that man was killed in the attack.
A massive manhunt is already under way for a third attacker at Brussels airport, who was seen wearing a white jacket and hat on security video with Khalid’s brother Ibrahim and a man identified as Najim Laachraoui.
Ibrahim and Laachraoui both died at the airport in suicide blasts. The third man at the airport fled without detonating his bomb.
Meanwhile, the lawyer for Paris attacks suspect Salah Abdeslam said his client is not fighting extradition to France, where he faces potential terrorism charges in the Nov. 13 attacks that left 130 people dead.
Abdeslam, 26, who was nabbed March 18 in Brussels’ Molenbeek neighborhood, where he grew up, appeared in court Thursday with two suspected accomplices, the Belgian prosecutor’s office said.
His lawyer, Sven Mary, said he asked for a one-month delay on any transfer while he studies the large file, but that Abdeslam “wants to leave for France as quickly as possible.”
Asked if his client had prior knowledge about Tuesday’s suicide bombings at Brussels airport and on a Metro train, Mary said in English: “He didn’t know it.”
Abdeslam has not cooperated with investigators since the Brussels attacks, his lawyer told Europe 1 radio in an interview broadcast on Thursday.
“I think he wanted to see me because he had a visit from the investigators” on Tuesday, Mary said, AFP reported.
“I don’t want him to close up again. If he closes up again, we will be facing more cases like Zaventem and the Bataclan,” he said, referring to Brussels airport and the Paris concert hall.
Asked what Abdeslam thought of the Brussels attacks, Mary said: “I don’t want to know what he thinks. At this stage, it’s not important,” AFP reported.
Abdeslam, who was shot in the leg during his arrest, “is recovering bit by bit from his injury, which was not serious,” Mary said.
The French citizen is believed to have played a key role in organizing the attacks in Paris but apparently dumped his suicide vest at the last minute. He has been held in a high-security jail in Bruges, northwest of Brussels.
ISIS has claimed responsibility for the attacks in Brussels and Paris amid growing signs that the same cell of the terror group was behind both rampages.
Evidence is growing that the jihadists may have launched this week’s attacks in Brussels quickly because they feared authorities were closing in on them after Abdeslam’s arrest.
European Union justice and interior ministers plan to hold an emergency meeting on Thursday about the Brussels attacks.
European security authorities have faced mounting criticism after it emerged that the El Bakraoui brothers were known to law enforcement.
Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan said Wednesday that Ibrahim El Bakraoui was caught in June 2015 near Turkey’s border with Syria and deported, at his own request, to the Netherlands.
Turkey warned Dutch and Belgian officials that Ibrahim was a “foreign terrorist fighter,” he said.
But other Turkish officials said Ibrahim was released from Dutch custody due to lack of evidence of involvement in extremism.
Flags in the stunned city of Brussels hung at half-staff as Belgium mourned the 31 people from all over the world killed in the attacks.
Candles, Belgian flags and teddy bears were piling up in the central Place de la Bourse with tributes left to the innocent victims.
Outside the bombed Metro station of Maalbeek, near key European Union sites, a banner read “Why?” in English, French and German.
With Post wires
 
