FBI warned Dutch police about Brussels terrorists before attacks
The FBI provided Dutch police with information about two jihadist brothers a week before they blew themselves up in the Brussels terror attacks, officials said Tuesday.
Dutch authorities learned of Ibrahim and Khalid El Bakraoui‘s criminal background on March 16, and then passed the information along to their Belgian counterparts the following day, according to Dutch Interior Minister Ard van der Steur.
“On March 16, the FBI informed Dutch police over the fact that both brothers were sought by Belgian authorities,” the Dutch minister wrote in a response to questions from Dutch legislators about the Brussels residents, who took part in the March 22 attacks.
Van der Steur said the FBI told Dutch authorities that Ibrahim was wanted in Belgium for “his criminal background,” while Khaled was wanted for “terrorism, extremism and recruitment.”
Ibrahim blew himself up at the Brussels airport and Khalid set off a blast at the subway station in Maelbeek. More than 30 people were killed and more than 300 injured.
In an earlier version of the letter, van der Steur wrote that the FBI had informed the Netherlands about the brothers, without mentioning they were wanted by Belgium.
The information was then shared at a meeting between Belgian and Dutch authorities on March 17, he wrote.
But Belgian police denied the brothers were mentioned during the conversation.
They only discussed a shootout in Brussels on March 15 in which an Islamist gunman was shot dead, but there was no mention of the FBI report, the Belgian police said in the statement.
Belgian and European authorities have faced mounting criticism for a series of missteps and missed chances in connection with a jihadist cell tied to both last week’s Brussels attacks and the Nov. 13 bloodshed in Paris.
After the Brussels attacks, Turkish officials said that Ibrahim had been arrested near the Syrian border in June 2015 and expelled to the Netherlands on July 14. Dutch authorities said that when Ibrahim arrived, his name did not appear on any security lists, so he was not arrested. It remained unclear why he was not deported to Belgium.
Ankara had warned Belgium that he was a suspected jihadist who had tried to join ISIS in Syria.
Belgian Interior Minister Jan Jambon acknowledged the Belgian police liaison at the embassy in Turkey forwarded information about the brothers’ terror ties on July 20.
The embassy official asked Turkey for more information on Ibrahim, who skipped parole after serving less that half of a 10-year sentence for armed robbery.
Meanwhile, the number of people killed in the Brussels attacks has been revised down to 32, excluding the three suicide bombers, Belgian federal prosecutors said Tuesday.
Officials had previously put the death toll at 35, but they said Tuesday that had been due to the double counting of three people with dual nationality.
Magistrate Ine Van Wymeersch said all the victims had been identified and consisted of 17 Belgians and 15 foreigners.
“After thorough verification: number of victims goes down to 32. Still 94 people in hospital,” tweeted Belgian Health Minister Maggie De Block.
With Post wires
