Even after Brussels, the West is answering terror with fantasy
As the barbarians’ knocks at the gate grow louder, America goes deeper into slumber.
At least 34 people got killed and 230 injured Tuesday in a multi-prong attack that turned Brussels into a ghost town. ISIS claimed responsibility, making mockery of our boasts of progress in the battle against that former JV team of Islamist terrorism.
What made the two bombings so scary was that they hit the most vulnerable targets: a downtown metro station near the European Union headquarters and the Belgian Zaventem airport. Thus, Western ports, depots and other points of entry are targets now, too.
Three dark-haired men were spotted in security-camera footage at the airport. Two of them apparently carried out suicide attacks, while the third is still on the lam. In consequent searches, including in the Northeast Brussels neighborhood of Schaerbeek, investigators found nails for loading additional bombs, as well as a black ISIS flag and chemical agents.
Chemicals? These terror groups aren’t going away, and we keep finding them with more sophisticated, dangerous weapons. How long before ISIS (or one of its Sunni rivals, or an Iranian-backed Shiite terrorist proxy) gets the ultimate weapon of mass destruction — nukes?
Yet, once the news from Belgium hit our shores, cable networks first turned for answers to — who else? — Donald Trump. Meanwhile, President Obama was too busy ending past enmities to notice a war with the potential to be scarier than all those of the last century.
Obama has dedicated his two terms in office to realigning America’s priorities, disparaging anyone who’d resist his 21st-century vision. Europe and the Mideast, in his view of modernity, are less crucial to America’s interests than Asia or Latin America. 
Ironically, Obama is the one dealing with symbols of the past, leaving others to address the contemporary world.
“I have come here to bury the last remnant of the Cold War in the Americas,” he told a cheering crowd in Havana on Tuesday, while Brussels was bleeding.
Even Obama, though, knew he had to address the carnage, so he apologized to his listeners for interrupting the legacy tour, and dedicated a few words at the top of his address to a budding faraway crisis: America will “do whatever is necessary to support our friend and ally, Belgium, in bringing to justice those who are responsible.”
Justice? Really? Is America’s legal aid what our allies need from us now?
As an unnamed Brussels official told Buzzfeed, Belgium doesn’t have “the infrastructure to properly investigate or monitor hundreds of individuals suspected of terror links.” This, he added, is “an impossible situation and, frankly, it’s very grave.”
Add to his helpless despair the fact that the attack occurred mere days after European security forces captured Salah Abdeslam, the mastermind of the November carnage in Paris. The arrest promised to yield a trove of valuable intelligence, and was therefore viewed as a huge step forward in the war.
Tuesday’s attack amply demonstrates that such victories are at best incremental. ISIS is on the march. Without the comprehensive strategy and leadership that in the past America alone could muster, aimless Europe is in deep trouble. And soon enough, us, too.
But is America in the mood for global leadership?
“NATO is costing us a fortune, and yes, we’re protecting Europe with NATO, but we’re spending a lot of money,” Trump pronounced. The populist-socialist Sen. Bernie Sanders tends toward isolationism. Rhetorically, Democratic front-runner Hillary Clinton is more on the ball, talking of defeating ISIS in Syria and acknowledging that jihadism is “clearly rooted in Islamic thinking.” 
But like the other presidential candidates, she senses (and, more important, reads the polls of) the public mood after more than seven Obama years. So they all sell the fantasy that we can fix things at home even as the world burns.
But as Belgium shows, you can’t just declare war over, now that the 21st century is here. Obama’s professorial dreams and the careless attitudes of his would-be successors aside, war is raging in the Mideast and Europe. And America remains the ultimate target.
Must we wait for the big kaboom before waking up?
