From Brussels to Ivory Coast, how should we respond to the evil of terrorism
On Easter morning, the congregation at the historic St. Mary’s Episcopal Church in the District’s Foggy Bottom community prayed for those caught up in tragedies in Brussels and Ivory Coast.
The toll of the onslaughts was great.
Claimed by the Islamic State, the March 22 bombings at the airport and metro station in Brussels left at least 35 dead, including three attackers, and more than 300 injured. 
The March 13 attack at an Ivory Coast beach resort in Grand-Bassam left 22 dead, including six gunmen, two soldiers and 14 civilians. Al-Qaeda in the Islamic Maghreb claimed responsibility.
The St. Mary’s congregation prayed for those who lost lives, those working to save lives, those worried for people they love and those who will see their loved ones no longer. They prayed for the Lord to have mercy upon them.
The parishioners had no way of knowing that a suicide bombing that day in a crowded area of a park designated for women and children in Lahore, Pakistan, had killed at least 72 people. Or that the attack was directed at Christians who were celebrating the Resurrection. And that a splinter faction of the Pakistani Taliban had claimed responsibility for the attack.
Had they known about that, they likely would have included the Pakistani victims in their prayers for people in despair with tears yet to dry and in need of mercy and peace. 
Easter was, for some, a day of joy for the victory over death. For others — too many others — it was a day of suffering, of dying and the dead.
On Saturday, church staff in Foggy Bottom, busy preparing for Sunday, were unaware of the warning issued by Turkish police  that day of possible Islamic State attacks against Christians and Jews. Turkish authorities said that Islamic State terrorists may have scouted out places of worship and that churches and synagogues, especially in Ankara, should be on their guard. A subsequent report said that the Islamic State was planning attacks on Jewish schools and kindergartens in Turkey.
For believers who proclaim that death has no dominion over them, this, indeed, is a time of testing. 
When we consider the carnage in Lahore, the bombings in Brussels, the attacks in Ivory Coast, is comfort drawn from a belief in life everlasting?
The test, perhaps, constitutes more than that. And it applies to believers and nonbelievers alike: How to respond to the princes of darkness, those evil powers — militant Islamist terrorists who exist under names such as the Islamic State, al-Qaeda and the Taliban?
A place to start is recognizing that Islam and militant Islamist fundamentalism are not the same thing. Most Muslims have nothing to do with the radicals who carry out violence in the name of Islam. And as the Anti-Defamation League points out, “The greatest number of Islamic terrorist attacks are directed at Muslims and often at their religious institutions and on religious holidays.”
The problem is the extremist ideology that drives the killing of Christian mothers and children and Ivorian beachgoers and which threatened Jewish schools in Turkey.
Extremist Islamist ideology is an evil to be resisted. Its followers are visible enemies who, when discovered, must be crushed. But that’s not done by patrolling and securing Muslim neighborhoods or imposing a ban on Muslims entering the United States or by basing immigration policy solely on a religious test.
Crucial to the resistance is a clear understanding of what children in Lahore and in Jewish schools in Istanbul, and worshipers in parishes such as St. Mary’s, are up against. As Maajid Nawaz wrote in the Daily Beast this week, radicals in the form of the Islamic State, al-Qaeda and the Taliban “all drink from the same doctrinal well of widespread, rigid Wahhabism” — the ultraconservative, puritanical form of Islam that comes with a brutal intolerance. “They are all unified,” Nawaz wrote, “behind a theocratic desire to enforce a version of Sharia as law over society.”
That is the enemy, as President Obama said last Saturday in his weekly address, that must be rooted out and defeated. It poses a threat to the civilized world. Obama also observed that another weapon can be used against groups such as the Islamic State besides airstrikes, military power and counterterrorism work: “the power of our example.” Obama referred to our “character,” “values” and “history as a nation built around the idea of religious freedom,” and to our “vision of the future.” 
It is a vision of justice and peace among all people, and respect for the dignity of every human being. That was also among the prayers voiced at St. Mary’s on Sunday — a powerful antidote to a hateful cause.
 Read more from  
